,cik , ticker , date , year , quarter , text,cosine_similarity,jaccard_similarity
0,511143, IBM , 2017-07-25 ,2017,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this Form 10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in the economic environment and client spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; cybersecurity and data privacy considerations; fluctuations in financial results; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers; product quality issues; impacts of business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels and ecosystems; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions, alliances and dispositions; risks from legal proceedings; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein or herein by reference. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.909603128765,0.647540983607
1,511143, IBM , 2016-07-26 ,2016,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this Form 10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in the economic environment and client spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; cybersecurity and data privacy considerations; fluctuations in financial results; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers; product quality issues; impacts of business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels and ecosystems; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions, alliances and dispositions; risks from legal proceedings; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein or herein by reference. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.927430716517,0.661290322581
2,511143, IBM , 2015-07-28 ,2015,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this Form 10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in the economic environment and client spending budgets; the company's failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company's innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company's intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; cybersecurity and data privacy considerations; fluctuations in financial results; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company's pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers and business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions, alliances and dispositions; risks from legal proceedings; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein or herein by reference. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.888948752773,0.709302325581
3,511143, IBM , 2014-07-29 ,2014,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this Form 10-Q may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in the economic environment and client spending budgets; the company's failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company's innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company's intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; cybersecurity and data privacy considerations; fluctuations in financial results; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company's pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers and business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions, alliances and dispositions; risks from legal proceedings; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein or herein by reference. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.971590909091,0.938461538462
4,511143, IBM , 2013-07-31 ,2013,2," Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in economic environment and corporate IT spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; cybersecurity and data privacy considerations; fluctuations in financial results and purchases; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers and business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions and alliances; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Qs, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein or herein by reference. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.604015905874,0.272300469484
5,511143, IBM , 2012-07-31 ,2012,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in economic environment and corporate IT spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; cybersecurity and data privacy considerations; fluctuations in financial results and purchases; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers and business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions and alliances; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein by reference.  The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.870875534403,0.129136400323
6,511143, IBM , 2011-07-26 ,2011,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in economic environment and corporate IT spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; breaches of data security; fluctuations in financial results and purchases; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impacts of relationships with critical suppliers and business with government clients; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions and alliances; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein by reference.  The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.997604691652,0.845714285714
7,511143, IBM , 2010-07-27 ,2010,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995. Forward-looking statements are based on the company’s current assumptions regarding future business and financial performance. These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in the economic environment and corporate IT spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; breaches of data security; fluctuations in revenues and purchases; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impact of relationships with critical suppliers; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions and alliances; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein by reference. Any forward-looking statement in this Form 10-Q speaks only as of the date on which it is made. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.996986038742,0.86684303351
8,511143, IBM , 2009-07-28 ,2009,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the following: a downturn in the economic environment and corporate IT spending budgets; the company’s failure to meet growth and productivity objectives; a failure of the company’s innovation initiatives; risks from investing in growth opportunities; failure of the company’s intellectual property portfolio to prevent competitive offerings and the failure of the company to obtain necessary licenses; breaches of data protection; fluctuations in revenues and purchases; impact of local legal, economic, political and health conditions; adverse effects from environmental matters, tax matters and the company’s pension plans; ineffective internal controls; the company’s use of accounting estimates; competitive conditions; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; impact of relationships with critical suppliers; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; impact of changes in market liquidity conditions and customer credit risk on receivables; reliance on third party distribution channels; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions and alliances; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein by reference.  The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.996005591581,0.876288659794
9,511143, IBM , 2008-07-29 ,2008,2," Except for the historical information and discussions contained herein, statements contained in this release may constitute forward-looking statements within the meaning of the Private Securities Litigation Reform Act of 1995.  These statements involve a number of risks, uncertainties and other factors that could cause actual results to differ materially, including the company’s failure to continue to develop and market new and innovative products and services and to keep pace with technological change; competitive pressures; failure to obtain or protect intellectual property rights; breaches of the company’s data security measures; changes in the economic environment and corporate IT spending budgets; fluctuations in revenues and purchases, and volatility of stock prices; the company’s ability to attract and retain key personnel and its reliance on critical skills; adverse affects from tax matters; environmental matters; currency fluctuations and customer financing risks; customer credit risk on receivables; risks from investing in growth opportunities; the company’s failure to maintain the adequacy of its internal controls; the company’s use of certain estimates and assumptions; dependence on certain suppliers; changes in the financial or business condition of the company’s distributors or resellers; the company’s ability to successfully manage acquisitions and alliances; failure to have sufficient insurance; legal, political, health and economic conditions; risk factors related to IBM securities; and other risks, uncertainties and factors discussed in the company’s Form 10-Q, Form 10-K and in the company’s other filings with the U.S. Securities and Exchange Commission (SEC) or in materials incorporated therein by reference. The company assumes no obligation to update or revise any forward-looking statements.",0.622012901869,0.109359605911
10,50863, INTC , 2017-07-27 ,2017,2," The risks described in Part I, Item 1A, ""Risk Factors,"" in our 2016 Form 10-K, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face - our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The Risk Factors section of our 2016 Annual Report on Form 10-K remains current in all material respects.",1.0,1.0
11,50863, INTC , 2016-08-01 ,2016,2," The risks described in Part I, Item 1A, ""Risk Factors,"" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2015, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face - our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The Risk Factors section of our 2015 Annual Report on Form 10-K, as updated by our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended April 2, 2016, remains current in all material respects except that the following language shall be added to the bullet point list of risks identified in the Risk Factor titled “We operate globally and are subject to significant risks in many jurisdictions - Global or regional conditions may harm our financial results:” “The United Kingdom referendum to withdraw from the European Union ('Brexit');”",0.998094403109,0.976608187135
12,50863, INTC , 2015-07-27 ,2015,2," The risks described in Part I, Item 1A, ""Risk Factors,"" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 27, 2014, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations, and the trading price of our common stock could decline. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face - our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. Due to risks and uncertainties, known and unknown, our past financial results may not be a reliable indicator of future performance and historical trends should not be used to anticipate results or trends in future periods. The Risk Factors section of our 2014 Annual Report on Form 10-K remains current in all material respects.",1.0,1.0
13,50863, INTC , 2014-07-25 ,2014,2," The risks described in Part I, Item 1A, ""Risk Factors,"" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 28, 2013, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face - our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. The Risk Factors section of our 2013 Annual Report on Form 10-K remains current in all material respects.",0.984626238504,0.888235294118
14,50863, INTC , 2013-07-29 ,2013,2," The risks described in Part I, Item 1A, ""Risk Factors,"" in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 29, 2012, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face - our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. The Risk Factors section of our 2012 Annual Report on Form 10-K remains current in all material respects.",0.989021299355,0.910714285714
15,50863, INTC , 2012-08-01 ,2012,2," The risks described in Item 1A. Risk Factors, in our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 31, 2011, could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. These risk factors do not identify all risks that we face—our operations could also be affected by factors that are not presently known to us or that we currently consider to be immaterial to our operations. The Risk Factors section of our 2011 Annual Report on Form 10-K remains current as updated by our Quarterly Report on Form 10-Q for the quarter ended March 31, 2012 with the exception of the revised risk factor below. Third parties might attempt to breach our network security and our products and services, which could damage our reputation and financial results. We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet or to introduce malicious software to our IT systems. Additionally, malicious hackers may attempt to gain unauthorized access into and corrupt the processes of hardware and software products that we manufacture and services we provide. These attempts might be the result of industrial or other espionage or actions by hackers seeking to harm the company, its products and services, or users of its products and services. Because of the widespread use of Intel products and/or because of the high profile of our McAfee subsidiary, we or our products and services are a frequent target of computer hackers or organizations that intend to sabotage, take control of or otherwise corrupt our manufacturing or other processes, products and services or to gain access to our network or data centers or those of our customers or end users, steal proprietary information related to our business, products, and customers or interrupt our systems and services or those of our customers or others. We believe such attempts are increasing in number and in technical sophistication. These attacks are sometimes successful; and in some instances we, our customers and end users of our products and services might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. We seek to detect and investigate such attempts and incidents and to prevent their recurrence where practicable through changes to our internal processes and tools and/or changes or patches to our products and services, but in some cases preventive and remedial action might not be successful. Both successful and unsuccessful attacks could result in our incurring costs relating to, for example, rebuilding internal systems, reduced inventory value, providing modifications to our products and services, defending against litigation, or paying damages or taking other remedial steps with respect to third parties. Publicity about vulnerabilities and attempted or successful incursions could damage our reputation with customers or end users and reduce demand for our products and services.",0.99766584998,0.970414201183
16,50863, INTC , 2011-08-08 ,2011,2," We describe our business risk factors below. This description includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 25, 2010. Fluctuations in demand for our products may harm our financial results and are difficult to forecast. If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and profitability could be harmed. Important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the computing industry and the overall economy; changes in consumer confidence or disposable income caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in government borrowing, taxation, or spending policies; the credit market; expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy or other commodity prices; changes in the level of customers’ components inventories; competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products, chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs; changes in customer product needs; strategic actions taken by our competitors; market acceptance of our products; and potential disruptions in the high technology supply chain. If product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. In addition, if product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. Factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers’ product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, im certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, R&D, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. At the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product cycles and general economic market conditions. These downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity and resulting excess capacity charges, high inventory levels, and lower average selling prices. The combination of these factors may cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly in both the short and long term. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could harm our ability to compete. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. As new computing market segments emerge, such as netbooks, handhelds, tablets, and consumer electronics devices, we face new sources of competition, and customers that have different requirements than customers in our traditional PC business. To be successful, we need to cultivate new industry relationships in these market segments. As the number and variety of Internet-connected devices increase, we need to improve the cost, energy efficiency, and security functionality of our microprocessors to succeed in these new market segments. In addition, we need to focus on the acquisition and development of our software capabilities in order to provide customers with complete computing solutions. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. Our R&D efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, and we do not expect that all of our projects will be successful. If our R&D efforts are unsuccessful, our future results of operations could be materially harmed. We may not be able to develop and market these new products successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers, and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. These types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize impairments on our assets. Litigation or regulatory proceedings could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. As described in “Note 26: Contingencies” in Part I, Item 1 of this Form 10-Q, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, precluding particular business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. Fluctuations in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. Because of the wide price differences among and within notebook, netbook, tablet, desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling prices of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. Our financial results also depend in part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. In addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. Our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have sales offices, R&D, manufacturing, assembly and test facilities, and other facilities in many countries, and some business activities may be concentrated in one or more geographic areas. As a result, we are subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products in particular countries or on a geographic basis, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition, including: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; health concerns; natural disasters; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions; restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings; differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act (FCPA) and other anti-corruption laws and regulations; and regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ among jurisdictions. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines; criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies, controls, and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws, our employees, contractors, or agents may violate our policies. In addition, although substantially all of our revenue is transacted in U.S. dollars, we incur a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as conduct certain investing and financing activities, in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements; therefore, fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our results and financial condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and in U.S. and non-U.S. monetary policies may harm our results and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue. Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our results of operations and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. However, there is a risk that one or more of our insurance providers may be unable or unwilling to pay a claim. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be substantial, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. Production of integrated circuits is a complex process. Disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes; defects in materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions—all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. We may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of certain products could make it more difficult to deliver computing platforms. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. We may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our costs. We have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that we use in the production of our products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single location, for these materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or could make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. In addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, gases, and other materials. Future environmental regulations could restrict the supply or increase the cost of certain of the materials that we currently use in our business. Environmental regulations also may make it more difficult to obtain permits to build or modify additional manufacturing capacity to meet demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce production of products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. Costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our design and manufacturing processes, could include: writing off the value of inventory of such products; disposing of products that cannot be fixed; recalling such products that have been shipped to customers; providing product replacements for, or modifications to, such products; and defending against litigation related to such products. These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. The announcement of product defects and errata could cause customers to purchase products from our competitors as a result of anticipated shortages of Intel components or for other reasons. These factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business. Third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. We are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters involving intellectual property rights. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies, including those who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. As a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to: pay third-party infringement claims; discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products subject to infringement claims; discontinue using the technology or processes subject to infringement claims; develop other technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; or license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase expenses. In addition, if we alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us, which could harm our business. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to license the technology or pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations, and governments or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may require that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business. We may be subject to intellectual property theft or misuse, which could result in third-party claims and harm our business and results of operations. We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet to our information technology systems, such as when they masquerade as authorized users or surreptitiously introduce software. These attempts, which might be the result of industrial or other espionage, or actions by hackers seeking to harm the company, its products, or end users, are sometimes successful. In part because of the high profile of our McAfee subsidiary in the network and system protection business, we might become a target of computer hackers who create viruses to sabotage or otherwise attack our products and services. Hackers might attempt to penetrate our network security and gain access to our network and our data centers, misappropriate our or our customers’ proprietary information, including personally identifiable information, or cause interruptions of our internal systems and services. We seek to detect and investigate these security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position and reduce marketplace acceptance of our products; the value of our investment in R&D, product development, and marketing could be reduced; and third parties might assert against us or our customers claims related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data, or system reliability. Our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. Our licenses with other companies and our participation in industry initiatives may allow other companies, including our competitors, to use our patent rights. Companies in the computing industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each other in order to compete. Many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law, some of the licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. In addition, our participation in industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result, our patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be impaired. We face risks related to our product sales through distributors and other third parties. We sell a portion of our products through third parties such as distributors, value-added resellers, original equipment manufacturers, internet service providers, and channel partners (collectively referred to as distributors). Using third parties for distribution exposes us to numerous risks, including competitive pressure, concentration, credit risk, and compliance risks. Our distributors may sell other companies’ products that compete with our products, and we may need to provide financial and other incentives to focus distributors on the sale of our products. We may rely on one or more key distributors for a particular product, and the loss of these distributors could adversely impact our revenue. Our distributors may face financial difficulties, including bankruptcy, which could adversely impact our collection of accounts receivable and negatively affect our financial results. Violations of FCPA or similar laws by distributors or other third party intermediaries could have a material impact on our business. If we fail to manage these or other risks related to our use of distributors successfully, our sales may be reduced, our expenses may be increased, and our competitive position may be weakened. We face risks related to our sales to government entities. We derive a portion of our revenues from sales to U.S. and foreign federal, state, and local governments and their respective agencies. Government demand and payment for our products may be affected by public sector budgetary cycles and funding authorizations, and funding reductions or delays could negatively impact demand for our products and services. Additionally, government contracts are subject to government oversight on matters such as special rules on accounting, expenses, reviews and security, and our failure to comply with such special rules could result in civil and criminal penalties and administrative sanction, including termination of contracts, fines and suspensions, or debarment from future government business. We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity or debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. The companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or participate in liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity or debt investment in a public or private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. We also have significant investments in companies in the flash memory market segment, and declines in this market segment or changes in management’s plans with respect to our investments in this market segment could result in significant impairment charges, impacting gains (losses) on equity method investments, net and gains (losses) on other equity investments, net. When the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. We may incur losses on the disposal of our non-marketable investments. Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company’s income or loss, such income or loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment charges for equity and other investments. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities;  changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including changes in the U.S. to the taxation of foreign income and expenses; changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. Decisions about the scope of operations of our business could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the business environment could lead to changes in our decisions about the scope of operations of our business, and these changes could result in restructuring and asset impairment charges. Factors that could affect our results of operations and financial condition with regard to changing the scope of our operations include: timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; future divestitures; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets. Our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. Acquisitions and other transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities on terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology; acquired businesses may not have adequate controls, processes, and procedures to ensure compliance with laws and regulations globally, and our due diligence process may not identify compliance issues or other liabilities that are in existence at the time of our acquisition; we may have difficulty entering into new market segments in which we are not experienced; or we may be unable to retain the customers and partners of acquired businesses following the acquisition. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to factors such as: failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals; intellectual property or other litigation; or difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the transaction. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the computing industry can be intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as non-vested share units (restricted stock units) and employee stock options. If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of operations. The manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of EHS laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with any of those applicable laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and curtailment of our operations or sales. In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. 57 Climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. In addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and regulations can increase our costs. For example, the cost of perfluorocompounds (PFCs), a gas that we use in manufacturing, could increase over time under some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may be imposed by government regulation. If the use of PFCs is prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. In addition, air quality permit requirements for our manufacturing operations could become more burdensome and cause delays in our ability to modify or build additional manufacturing capacity. Under recently adopted greenhouse gas regulations in the U.S., many of our manufacturing facilities have become “major” sources under the Clean Air Act. At a minimum, this change in status will result in some uncertainty as the EPA adopts guidance on implementation of its greenhouse gas regulations. Due to the dynamic nature of our semiconductor manufacturing operations, it is likely these new regulations will result in increased costs for our U.S. operations. These cost increases could be associated with new air pollution control requirements, and increased or new monitoring, recordkeeping, and reporting of greenhouse gas emissions. We also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or events. Many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions, such as Israel and the southwestern U.S. Some scenarios predict that these regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. Interest and other, net could be impacted by macroeconomic and other factors, harming our results of operations. Factors that could cause interest and other, net in our consolidated condensed statements of income to fluctuate include: fixed-income, equity, and credit market volatility; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in the credit standing of financial instrument counterparties; and changes in our cash and investment balances.",0.989882632445,0.920903954802
17,50863, INTC , 2010-07-30 ,2010,2," We describe our business risk factors below. This description includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 26, 2009. Fluctuations in demand for our products may harm our financial results and are difficult to forecast. If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and profitability could be harmed. Important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: changes in business and economic conditions, including downturns in the semiconductor industry and/or the overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, unemployment levels, and energy prices changes in the level of customers’ components inventories; competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products, chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs; changes in customer product needs; strategic actions taken by our competitors; and market acceptance of our products. If product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record excess capacity charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers’ product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. Litigation or regulatory proceedings could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. As described in “Note 23: Contingencies” in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation and regulatory matters, particularly with respect to competition. Litigation and regulatory proceedings are subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products, precluding particular business practices, or requiring other remedies, such as compulsory licensing of intellectual property. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, R&D, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. At the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product cycles as well as downturns in general economic market conditions. These downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity and resulting excess capacity charges, high inventory levels, and lower average selling prices. The combination of these factors may cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly in both the short and long term. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could harm our ability to compete. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. Our R&D efforts are aimed at solving increasingly complex problems, and we do not expect that all of our projects will be successful. If our R&D efforts are unsuccessful, our future results of operations could be materially harmed. We may not be able to develop and market these new products successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers, and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. These types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize impairments on our assets. We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity or debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. The companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity or debt investment in a public or private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. We have significant investments in companies in the flash memory market segment, and declines in this market segment or changes in management’s plans with respect to our investments in this market segment could result in significant impairment charges, impacting gains (losses) on equity method investments and gains (losses) on other equity investments. Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. Our non-marketable equity investments in private companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our results. Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company’s income or loss, such income or loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment charges related to debt instruments as well as equity and other investments. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Fluctuations in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. Because of the wide price differences among and within notebook, netbook, desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling price of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. Our financial results also depend in part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. In addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. Our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have sales offices, R&D, manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products in particular countries, which could, in turn, harm our results of operations and financial condition, including: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; health concerns; natural disasters; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities, transportation, or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices, including business practices that we are prohibited from engaging in by the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and other anticorruption laws and regulations; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings. In addition, although substantially all of our products are sold in U.S. dollars, we incur a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as conduct certain investing and financing activities, in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our results and financial condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and in U.S. and non-U.S. monetary policies may harm our results and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue. Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our results of operations and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. However, there is a risk that one or more of our insurance providers may be unable to pay a claim. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. Production of integrated circuits is a complex process. Disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes; defects in materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions—all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. We may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of certain products could make it more difficult to implement our platform strategy. We may also experience increases in yields. A substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. We may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our costs. We have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that we use in the production of our products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or could make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. In addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases. Future environmental regulations could restrict the supply or increase the cost of certain of the materials that we currently use in our business. The unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce production of products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. Costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our manufacturing processes, include: writing off the value of inventory of defective products; disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed; recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers; providing product replacements for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or defending against litigation related to defective products. These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. These factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business. Third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. We are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters involving intellectual property rights. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies, including those who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. As a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to: pay third-party infringement claims; discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products subject to infringement claims; discontinue using the technology or processes subject to infringement claims; develop other technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; and/or license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase expenses. In addition, if we alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us, which could harm our business. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations, and governments or courts may render decisions, requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may require that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business. We may be subject to intellectual property theft or misuse, which could result in third-party claims and harm our business and results of operations. We regularly face attempts by others to gain unauthorized access through the Internet to our information technology systems by, for example, masquerading as authorized users or surreptitious introduction of software. These attempts, which might be the result of industrial or other espionage, or actions by hackers seeking to harm the company, its products, or end users, are sometimes successful. One sophisticated incident occurred in January 2010 around the same time as the publicized security incident reported by Google. We seek to detect and investigate these security incidents and to prevent their recurrence, but in some cases we might be unaware of an incident or its magnitude and effects. The theft and/or unauthorized use or publication of our trade secrets and other confidential business information as a result of such an incident could adversely affect our competitive position and reduce marketplace acceptance of our products; the value of our investment in R&D, product development, and marketing could be reduced; and third parties might assert against us or our customers claims related to resulting losses of confidential or proprietary information or end-user data and/or system reliability. Our business could be subject to significant disruption, and we could suffer monetary and other losses, including the cost of product recalls and returns and reputational harm, in the event of such incidents and claims. Our licenses with other companies and our participation in industry initiatives may allow other companies, including our competitors, to use our patent rights. Companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each other in order to compete. Many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law, some of the licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. In addition, our participation in industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result, our patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be impaired. Decisions about the scope of operations of our business could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Changes in the business environment could lead to changes in our decisions about the scope of operations of our business, and these changes could result in restructuring and asset impairment charges. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to changing the scope of our operations include timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; future divestitures; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets. Our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. Acquisitions and other transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities at terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; or we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to: failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals; intellectual property or other litigation; difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the transaction; or other factors. Further, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. These factors could harm our business and results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock units). If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of operations. The manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of EHS laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with any of those applicable laws or regulations could result in regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and curtailment of our operations or sales. In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. Climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. In addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and regulations can increase our costs. For example, the cost of perfluorocompounds (PFCs), a gas that we use in our manufacturing, could increase over time under some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may be imposed by government regulation. If the use of PFCs is prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. In addition, air quality permit requirements for our manufacturing operations could become more burdensome and cause delays in our ability to modify our facilities. We also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or events. Many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions, such as Israel and the southwestern U.S. Some scenarios predict that these regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, and changes in deferred tax valuation allowances; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, including proposals in the U.S. to change the taxation of foreign income and expenses; changes in U.S. generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. Interest and other, net could be harmed by macroeconomic and other factors. Factors that could cause interest and other, net in our consolidated condensed statements of operations to fluctuate include: fixed-income, equity, and credit market volatility; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in the credit standing of financial instrument counterparties; changes in our cash and investment balances; and changes in our hedge accounting treatment.",0.987788945404,0.874285714286
18,50863, INTC , 2009-08-03 ,2009,2," We describe our business risk factors below. This description includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the year ended December 27, 2008. Fluctuations in demand for our products may harm our financial results and are difficult to forecast. Current uncertainty in global economic conditions poses a risk to the overall economy, as consumers and businesses have deferred and may continue to defer purchases in response to tighter credit and less discretionary spending, which negatively affect product demand and other related matters. If demand for our products fluctuates as a result of economic conditions or for other reasons, our revenue and gross margin could be harmed. Important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include: changes in business and economic conditions, including a downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or the overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices; changes in the level of customers’ components inventory; competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products, chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs; changes in customer product needs; strategic actions taken by our competitors; and market acceptance of our products. If product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record underutilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. Factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers’ product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. Ongoing financial stress could negatively affect our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The ongoing financial stress affecting the banking system and financial markets and the going concern threats to financial institutions have resulted in a tightening in the credit markets; a low level of liquidity in many financial markets; and extreme volatility in credit, fixed income, and equity markets. There could be a number of follow-on effects from the credit crisis on Intel’s business, including insolvency of key suppliers, resulting in product delays; inability of customers to obtain credit to finance purchases of our products and/or customer insolvencies; counterparty failures negatively impacting our treasury operations; increased expense or inability to obtain short-term financing of Intel’s operations from the issuance of commercial paper; and increased impairment charges due to declines in the fair values of marketable debt or equity investments. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. We may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, competition, and other issues on a global basis. As described in “Note 23: Contingencies” in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters, particularly with respect to competition. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. If we were to receive an unfavorable ruling in a matter, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, R&D, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. At the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product cycles as well as downturns in general economic market conditions, such as the current economic environment. These downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity and resulting underutilization charges, high inventory levels, and lower average selling prices. The combination of these factors may cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly in both the short and long term. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could harm our ability to compete. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may not be able to develop and market these new products successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers, and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. These types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize impairments on our assets. We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include equity or debt instruments of public or private companies, and many of these instruments are non-marketable at the time of our initial investment. These companies range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. The companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as public offerings, mergers, and private sales. The current economic environment may increase the risk of failure for many of the companies in which we invest due to limited access to credit and reduced frequency of liquidity events. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity investment in a public or private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. The majority of our non-marketable equity investment portfolio balance is concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment, and declines in this market segment or changes in management’s plans with respect to our investments in this market segment could result in significant impairment charges, impacting gains (losses) on equity method investments and gains (losses) on other equity investments. Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. Our non-marketable equity investments in private companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our results of operations. Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company’s income or loss, such income and loss may impact our earnings. Gains or losses from equity securities could vary from expectations depending on gains or losses realized on the sale or exchange of securities, gains or losses from equity method investments, and impairment charges related to debt instruments as well as equity and other investments. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. The current volatility in the financial markets and overall economic uncertainty increase the risk that the actual amounts realized in the future on our debt and equity investments will differ significantly from the fair values currently assigned to them. Fluctuations in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. Because of the wide price differences among and within mobile, desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling price of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. Our financial results also depend in part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. In addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. Our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have sales offices, R&D, manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products in particular countries, which could, in turn, harm our results of operations and financial condition, including: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity; health concerns natural disasters; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings. In addition, although most of our products are sold in U.S. dollars, we incur a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as certain investing and financing activities, in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our business operating results and financial condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and in U.S. and non-U.S. monetary policies may harm our operating results and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue. Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our operating results and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. We maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. In addition, the recent financial crisis could pose solvency risks for our insurers, which could reduce our coverage if one or more of our insurance providers is unable to pay a claim. Failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. Production of integrated circuits is a complex process. Disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes; defects in materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions—all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. We may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of certain products could make it more difficult to implement our platform strategy. We may also experience increases in yields. A substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting underutilization charges as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. We may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our costs. We have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that we use in the production of our products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or could make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. In addition, the recent financial crisis could pose solvency risks for our suppliers, which could reduce our sources of supply or increase the likelihood of a disruption in our supply chain. In addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases. The unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce production of products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. Costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our manufacturing processes, include: writing off the value of inventory of defective products disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed; recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers; providing product replacements for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or defending against litigation related to defective products. These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. These factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business. From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. As described in “Note 23: Contingencies” in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters involving intellectual property rights. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel from our business. As a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide that it is appropriate to: pay third-party infringement claims; discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products subject to infringement claims; discontinue using the technology or processes subject to infringement claims; develop other technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; and/or license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase expenses. In addition, if we alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our revenue could be harmed. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own or assert other claims against us. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may require that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business. Our licenses with other companies and our participation in industry initiatives may allow other companies, including our competitors, to use our patent rights. Companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each other in order to compete. Many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law, some of these licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. In addition, our participation in industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result, our patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be impaired. Changes in our decisions with regard to restructuring and efficiency efforts, and other factors, could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to restructuring actions include: timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; future dispositions; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment, including changes related to the current uncertainty in global economic conditions; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock units). If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock, or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of operations. The manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of Environmental Health and Safety laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and curtailment of our operations or sales. In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation, emissions, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. Climate change poses both regulatory and physical risks that could harm our results of operations or affect the way we conduct our business. In addition to the possible direct economic impact that climate change could have on us, climate change mitigation programs and regulation can increase our costs. For example, the cost of perfluorocompounds (PFCs), a gas that we use in our manufacturing, could increase over time under some climate-change-focused emissions trading programs that may be imposed by government regulation. If the use of PFCs is prohibited, we would need to obtain substitute materials that may cost more or be less available for our manufacturing operations. We also see the potential for higher energy costs driven by climate change regulations. Our costs could increase if utility companies pass on their costs, such as those associated with carbon taxes, emission cap and trade programs, or renewable portfolio standards. While we maintain business recovery plans that are intended to allow us to recover from natural disasters or other events that can be disruptive to our business, we cannot be sure that our plans will fully protect us from all such disasters or events. Many of our operations are located in semi-arid regions, such as Israel and the southwestern United States. Some scenarios predict that these regions may become even more vulnerable to prolonged droughts due to climate change. Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to income taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process research and development and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. Interest and other, net could be harmed by macroeconomic and other factors. Factors that could cause interest and other, net in our consolidated condensed statements of operations to fluctuate include: fixed-income, equity, and credit market volatility, such as that which is being experienced in the current global economic environment; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in our cash and investment balances; and changes in our hedge accounting treatment. Our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. Acquisitions and other transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities at terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; or we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to: failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals; intellectual property or other litigation; difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the transaction; or other factors. Further, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. These factors could harm our business and results of operations.",0.956673361681,0.688172043011
19,50863, INTC , 2008-08-01 ,2008,2," We describe our business risk factors below. This description includes any material changes to and supersedes the description of the risk factors associated with our business previously disclosed in Part I, Item 1A of our Annual Report on Form 10-K for the fiscal year ended December 29, 2007. Fluctuations in demand for our products may harm our financial results and are difficult to forecast. If demand for our products fluctuates, our revenue and gross margin could be harmed. Important factors that could cause demand for our products to fluctuate include changes in business and economic conditions, including a downturn in the semiconductor industry and/or the overall economy; changes in consumer confidence caused by changes in market conditions, including changes in the credit market, expectations for inflation, and energy prices; competitive pressures, including pricing pressures, from companies that have competing products, chip architectures, manufacturing technologies, and marketing programs; changes in customer product needs; changes in the level of customers’ components inventory; strategic actions taken by our competitors; and market acceptance of our products. If product demand decreases, our manufacturing or assembly and test capacity could be underutilized, and we may be required to record an impairment on our long-lived assets including facilities and equipment, as well as intangible assets, which would increase our expenses. In addition, factory-planning decisions may shorten the useful lives of long-lived assets, including facilities and equipment, and cause us to accelerate depreciation. In the long term, if product demand increases, we may not be able to add manufacturing or assembly and test capacity fast enough to meet market demand. These changes in demand for our products, and changes in our customers’ product needs, could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, and, in certain cases, may reduce our revenue, increase our costs, lower our gross margin percentage, or require us to recognize impairments of our assets. In addition, if product demand decreases or we fail to forecast demand accurately, we could be required to write off inventory or record underutilization charges, which would have a negative impact on our gross margin. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by a high percentage of costs that are fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term, and by product demand that is highly variable and subject to significant downturns that may harm our business, results of operations, and financial condition. The semiconductor industry and our operations are characterized by high costs, such as those related to facility construction and equipment, R&D, and employment and training of a highly skilled workforce, that are either fixed or difficult to reduce in the short term. At the same time, demand for our products is highly variable and there have been downturns, often in connection with maturing product cycles as well as downturns in general economic market conditions. These downturns have been characterized by reduced product demand, manufacturing overcapacity, high inventory levels, and lower average selling prices. The combination of these factors may cause our revenue, gross margin, cash flow, and profitability to vary significantly in both the short and long term. We operate in intensely competitive industries, and our failure to respond quickly to technological developments and incorporate new features into our products could harm our ability to compete. We operate in intensely competitive industries that experience rapid technological developments, changes in industry standards, changes in customer requirements, and frequent new product introductions and improvements. If we are unable to respond quickly and successfully to these developments, we may lose our competitive position, and our products or technologies may become uncompetitive or obsolete. To compete successfully, we must maintain a successful R&D effort, develop new products and production processes, and improve our existing products and processes at the same pace or ahead of our competitors. We may not be able to develop and market these new products successfully, the products we invest in and develop may not be well received by customers, and products developed and new technologies offered by others may affect demand for our products. These types of events could have a variety of negative effects on our competitive position and our financial results, such as reducing our revenue, increasing our costs, lowering our gross margin percentage, and requiring us to recognize impairments of our assets. Fluctuations in the mix of products sold may harm our financial results. Because of the wide price differences both among and within mobile, desktop, and server microprocessors, the mix and types of performance capabilities of microprocessors sold affect the average selling price of our products and have a substantial impact on our revenue and gross margin. Our financial results also depend in part on the mix of other products that we sell, such as chipsets, flash memory, and other semiconductor products. In addition, more recently introduced products tend to have higher associated costs because of initial overall development and production ramp. Fluctuations in the mix and types of our products may also affect the extent to which we are able to recover the fixed costs and investments associated with a particular product, and as a result can harm our financial results. Our global operations subject us to risks that may harm our results of operations and financial condition. We have sales offices, R&D, manufacturing, and assembly and test facilities in many countries, and as a result, we are subject to risks associated with doing business globally. Our global operations may be subject to risks that may limit our ability to manufacture, assemble and test, design, develop, or sell products in particular countries, which could, in turn, harm our results of operations and financial condition, including: security concerns, such as armed conflict and civil or military unrest, crime, political instability, and terrorist activity health concerns; natural disasters; inefficient and limited infrastructure and disruptions, such as large-scale outages or interruptions of service from utilities or telecommunications providers and supply chain interruptions; differing employment practices and labor issues; local business and cultural factors that differ from our normal standards and practices; regulatory requirements and prohibitions that differ between jurisdictions; and restrictions on our operations by governments seeking to support local industries, nationalization of our operations, and restrictions on our ability to repatriate earnings. In addition, although most of our products are sold in U.S. dollars, a significant amount of certain types of expenses, such as payroll, utilities, tax, and marketing expenses, as well as certain investing and financing activities, are incurred in local currencies. Our hedging programs reduce, but do not entirely eliminate, the impact of currency exchange rate movements, and therefore fluctuations in exchange rates could harm our business operating results and financial condition. In addition, changes in tariff and import regulations and to U.S. and non-U.S. monetary policies may harm our operating results and financial condition by increasing our expenses and reducing our revenue. Varying tax rates in different jurisdictions could harm our operating results and financial condition by increasing our overall tax rate. We also maintain a program of insurance coverage for various types of property, casualty, and other risks. We place our insurance coverage with various carriers in numerous jurisdictions. The types and amounts of insurance that we obtain vary from time to time and from location to location, depending on availability, cost, and our decisions with respect to risk retention. The policies are subject to deductibles and exclusions that result in our retention of a level of risk on a self-insurance basis. Losses not covered by insurance may be substantial and may increase our expenses, which could harm our results of operations and financial condition. Failure to meet our production targets, resulting in undersupply or oversupply of products, may harm our business and results of operations. Production of integrated circuits is a complex process. Disruptions in this process can result from interruptions in our processes, errors, and difficulties in our development and implementation of new processes; defects in materials; disruptions in our supply of materials or resources; and disruptions at our fabrication and assembly and test facilities due to, for example, accidents, maintenance issues, or unsafe working conditions—all of which could affect the timing of production ramps and yields. We may not be successful or efficient in developing or implementing new production processes. The occurrence of any of the foregoing may result in our failure to meet or increase production as desired, resulting in higher costs or substantial decreases in yields, which could affect our ability to produce sufficient volume to meet specific product demand. The unavailability or reduced availability of certain products could make it more difficult to implement our platform strategy. We may also experience increases in yields. A substantial increase in yields could result in higher inventory levels and the possibility of resulting excess capacity charges as we slow production to reduce inventory levels. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. We may have difficulties obtaining the resources or products we need for manufacturing, assembling and testing our products, or operating other aspects of our business, which could harm our ability to meet demand for our products and may increase our costs. We have thousands of suppliers providing various materials that we use in the production of our products and other aspects of our business, and we seek, where possible, to have several sources of supply for all of those materials. However, we may rely on a single or a limited number of suppliers, or upon suppliers in a single country, for these materials. The inability of such suppliers to deliver adequate supplies of production materials or other supplies could disrupt our production processes or could make it more difficult for us to implement our business strategy. In addition, production could be disrupted by the unavailability of the resources used in production, such as water, silicon, electricity, and gases. The unavailability or reduced availability of the materials or resources that we use in our business may require us to reduce production of products or may require us to incur additional costs in order to obtain an adequate supply of those materials or resources. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our business and results of operations. Costs related to product defects and errata may harm our results of operations and business. Costs associated with unexpected product defects and errata (deviations from published specifications) due to, for example, unanticipated problems in our manufacturing processes include, costs such as: writing off the value of inventory of defective products; disposing of defective products that cannot be fixed; recalling defective products that have been shipped to customers; providing product replacements for, or modifications to, defective products; and/or defending against litigation related to defective products. These costs could be substantial and may therefore increase our expenses and lower our gross margin. In addition, our reputation with our customers or users of our products could be damaged as a result of such product defects and errata, and the demand for our products could be reduced. These factors could harm our financial results and the prospects for our business. We may be subject to claims of infringement of third-party intellectual property rights, which could harm our business. From time to time, third parties may assert against us or our customers alleged patent, copyright, trademark, or other intellectual property rights to technologies that are important to our business. We may be subject to intellectual property infringement claims from certain individuals and companies who have acquired patent portfolios for the sole purpose of asserting such claims against other companies. Any claims that our products or processes infringe the intellectual property rights of others, regardless of the merit or resolution of such claims, could cause us to incur significant costs in responding to, defending, and resolving such claims, and may divert the efforts and attention of our management and technical personnel away from our business. As a result of such intellectual property infringement claims, we could be required or otherwise decide it is appropriate to pay third-party infringement claims discontinue manufacturing, using, or selling particular products subject to infringement claims; discontinue using the technology or processes subject to infringement claims; develop other technology not subject to infringement claims, which could be time-consuming and costly or may not be possible; and/or license technology from the third party claiming infringement, which license may not be available on commercially reasonable terms. The occurrence of any of the foregoing could result in unexpected expenses or require us to recognize an impairment of our assets, which would reduce the value of our assets and increase expenses. In addition, if we alter or discontinue our production of affected items, our revenue could be negatively impacted. We may be subject to litigation proceedings that could harm our business. In addition to the litigation risks mentioned above, we may be subject to legal claims or regulatory matters involving stockholder, consumer, antitrust, and other issues. As described in “Note 18: Contingencies” in the Notes to Consolidated Condensed Financial Statements of this Form 10-Q, we are currently engaged in a number of litigation matters. Litigation is subject to inherent uncertainties, and unfavorable rulings could occur. An unfavorable ruling could include monetary damages or, in cases for which injunctive relief is sought, an injunction prohibiting us from manufacturing or selling one or more products. Were an unfavorable ruling to occur, our business and results of operations could be materially harmed. We may not be able to enforce or protect our intellectual property rights, which may harm our ability to compete and harm our business. Our ability to enforce our patents, copyrights, software licenses, and other intellectual property rights is subject to general litigation risks, as well as uncertainty as to the enforceability of our intellectual property rights in various countries. When we seek to enforce our rights, we are often subject to claims that the intellectual property right is invalid, is otherwise not enforceable, or is licensed to the party against whom we are asserting a claim. In addition, our assertion of intellectual property rights often results in the other party seeking to assert alleged intellectual property rights of its own against us, which may harm our business. If we are not ultimately successful in defending ourselves against these claims in litigation, we may not be able to sell a particular product or family of products due to an injunction, or we may have to pay damages that could, in turn, harm our results of operations. In addition, governments may adopt regulations or courts may render decisions requiring compulsory licensing of intellectual property to others, or governments may require that products meet specified standards that serve to favor local companies. Our inability to enforce our intellectual property rights under these circumstances may harm our competitive position and our business. Our licenses with other companies and our participation in industry initiatives may allow other companies, including our competitors, to use our patent rights. Companies in the semiconductor industry often rely on the ability to license patents from each other in order to compete. Many of our competitors have broad licenses or cross-licenses with us, and under current case law, some of these licenses may permit these competitors to pass our patent rights on to others. If one of these licensees becomes a foundry, our competitors might be able to avoid our patent rights in manufacturing competing products. In addition, our participation in industry initiatives may require us to license our patents to other companies that adopt certain industry standards or specifications, even when such organizations do not adopt standards or specifications proposed by us. As a result, our patents implicated by our participation in industry initiatives might not be available for us to enforce against others who might otherwise be deemed to be infringing those patents, our costs of enforcing our licenses or protecting our patents may increase, and the value of our intellectual property may be impaired. Changes in our decisions with regard to our announced restructuring and efficiency efforts, and other factors, could affect our results of operations and financial condition. Factors that could cause actual results to differ materially from our expectations with regard to our announced restructuring include: timing and execution of plans and programs that may be subject to local labor law requirements, including consultation with appropriate work councils; changes in assumptions related to severance and postretirement costs; future dispositions; new business initiatives and changes in product roadmap, development, and manufacturing; changes in employment levels and turnover rates; changes in product demand and the business environment; and changes in the fair value of certain long-lived assets. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate key employees, and our failure to do so could harm our results of operations. In order to compete, we must attract, retain, and motivate executives and other key employees, including those in managerial, technical, sales, marketing, and support positions. Hiring and retaining qualified executives, scientists, engineers, technical staff, and sales representatives are critical to our business, and competition for experienced employees in the semiconductor industry can be intense. To help attract, retain, and motivate qualified employees, we use share-based incentive awards such as employee stock options and non-vested share units (restricted stock units). If the value of such stock awards does not appreciate as measured by the performance of the price of our common stock or if our share-based compensation otherwise ceases to be viewed as a valuable benefit, our ability to attract, retain, and motivate employees could be weakened, which could harm our results of operations. Our results of operations could vary as a result of the methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies. The methods, estimates, and judgments that we use in applying our accounting policies have a significant impact on our results of operations (see “Critical Accounting Estimates” in Part I, Item 2 of this Form 10-Q). Such methods, estimates, and judgments are, by their nature, subject to substantial risks, uncertainties, and assumptions, and factors may arise over time that lead us to change our methods, estimates, and judgments. Changes in those methods, estimates, and judgments could significantly affect our results of operations. Our failure to comply with applicable environmental laws and regulations worldwide could harm our business and results of operations. The manufacturing and assembling and testing of our products require the use of hazardous materials that are subject to a broad array of environmental, health, and safety laws and regulations. Our failure to comply with any of these applicable laws or regulations could result in: regulatory penalties, fines, and legal liabilities; suspension of production; alteration of our fabrication and assembly and test processes; and curtailment of our operations or sales. In addition, our failure to manage the use, transportation, emission, discharge, storage, recycling, or disposal of hazardous materials could subject us to increased costs or future liabilities. Existing and future environmental laws and regulations could also require us to acquire pollution abatement or remediation equipment, modify our product designs, or incur other expenses associated with such laws and regulations. Many new materials that we are evaluating for use in our operations may be subject to regulation under existing or future environmental laws and regulations that may restrict our use of one or more of such materials in our manufacturing, assembly and test processes, or products. Any of these restrictions could harm our business and results of operations by increasing our expenses or requiring us to alter our manufacturing and assembly and test processes. Changes in our effective tax rate may harm our results of operations. A number of factors may increase our future effective tax rates, including: the jurisdictions in which profits are determined to be earned and taxed; the resolution of issues arising from tax audits with various tax authorities; changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities; adjustments to estimated taxes upon finalization of various tax returns; increases in expenses not deductible for tax purposes, including write-offs of acquired in-process R&D and impairments of goodwill in connection with acquisitions; changes in available tax credits; changes in tax laws or the interpretation of such tax laws, and changes in generally accepted accounting principles; and our decision to repatriate non-U.S. earnings for which we have not previously provided for U.S. taxes. Any significant increase in our future effective tax rates could reduce net income for future periods. We invest in companies for strategic reasons and may not realize a return on our investments. We make investments in companies around the world to further our strategic objectives and support our key business initiatives. Such investments include investments in equity securities of public companies and non-marketable equity investments in private companies, which range from early-stage companies that are often still defining their strategic direction to more mature companies with established revenue streams and business models. The success of these companies is dependent on product development, market acceptance, operational efficiency, and other key business factors. The private companies in which we invest may fail because they may not be able to secure additional funding, obtain favorable investment terms for future financings, or take advantage of liquidity events such as initial public offerings, mergers, and private sales. If any of these private companies fail, we could lose all or part of our investment in that company. If we determine that an other-than-temporary decline in the fair value exists for an equity investment in a public or private company in which we have invested, we write down the investment to its fair value and recognize the related write-down as an investment loss. The majority of our non-marketable equity investment portfolio balance is concentrated in companies in the flash memory market segment. Therefore, declines in this market segment could harm our results of operations. Furthermore, when the strategic objectives of an investment have been achieved, or if the investment or business diverges from our strategic objectives, we may decide to dispose of the investment. Our non-marketable equity investments in private companies are not liquid, and we may not be able to dispose of these investments on favorable terms or at all. The occurrence of any of these events could harm our results of operations. Additionally, for cases in which we are required under equity method accounting to recognize a proportionate share of another company’s income or loss, such income and loss may impact our earnings. Interest and other, net could vary from expectations, which could harm our results of operations. Factors that could cause interest and other, net in our consolidated condensed statements of income to fluctuate include: fixed-income and credit market volatility; fluctuations in interest rates; changes in our cash and investment balances; fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates; other-than-temporary impairments in the fair value of fixed-income instruments; changes in our hedge accounting treatment; and gains or losses from divestitures. Our acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions could disrupt our ongoing business and harm our results of operations. In pursuing our business strategy, we routinely conduct discussions, evaluate opportunities, and enter into agreements regarding possible investments, acquisitions, divestitures, and other transactions, such as joint ventures. Acquisitions and other transactions involve significant challenges and risks, including risks that: we may not be able to identify suitable opportunities at terms acceptable to us; the transaction may not advance our business strategy; we may not realize a satisfactory return on the investment we make; we may not be able to retain key personnel of the acquired business; or we may experience difficulty in integrating new employees, business systems, and technology. When we decide to sell assets or a business, we may encounter difficulty in finding or completing divestiture opportunities or alternative exit strategies on acceptable terms in a timely manner, and the agreed terms and financing arrangements could be renegotiated due to changes in business or market conditions. These circumstances could delay the accomplishment of our strategic objectives or cause us to incur additional expenses with respect to businesses that we want to dispose of, or we may dispose of a business at a price or on terms that are less favorable than we had anticipated, resulting in a loss on the transaction. If we do enter into agreements with respect to acquisitions, divestitures, or other transactions, we may fail to complete them due to: failure to obtain required regulatory or other approvals; intellectual property or other litigation; difficulties that we or other parties may encounter in obtaining financing for the transaction; or other factors. Further, acquisition, divestiture, and other transactions require substantial management resources and have the potential to divert our attention from our existing business. These factors could harm our business and results of operations.",0.727266212468,0.0571300044984
20,1065088, EBAY , 2017-07-21 ,2017,2," You should carefully review the following discussion of the risks that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information appearing in this report, for important information regarding risks that affect us. Risk Factors That May Affect our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our operating and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this “Risk Factors” section. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings (loss) accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our consolidated financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. The trading price of our common stock and debt securities could decline, perhaps substantially, as a result of the factors described in this paragraph. Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in ecommerce may harm our business. The businesses and markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. We currently and potentially compete with a wide variety of online and offline companies providing goods and services to consumers and merchants. The Internet and mobile networks provide new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods and services. We compete in two-sided markets, and must attract both buyers and sellers to use our platforms. Consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through us have more and more alternatives, and merchants have more channels to reach consumers. We expect competition to continue to intensify. Online and offline businesses increasingly are competing with each other and our competitors include a number of online and offline retailers with significant resources, large user communities and well-established brands. Moreover, the barriers to entry into these channels can be low, and businesses easily can launch online sites or mobile platforms and applications at nominal cost by using commercially available software or partnering with any of a number of successful ecommerce companies. As we respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among sellers, which could reduce activity on our platform and harm our profitability. We face increased competitive pressure online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, ecommerce and mobile commerce has significantly increased, due to, among other factors, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. Also, certain platform businesses, such as Alibaba, Apple, Google and Facebook, many of whom are larger than us or have greater capitalization, have a dominant and secure position in other industries or certain significant markets, and offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer. If we are unable to change our products, offerings and services in ways that reflect the changing demands of ecommerce and mobile commerce marketplaces, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher expected service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), or compete effectively with and adapt to changes in larger platform businesses, our business will suffer. Competitors with other revenue sources may also be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote more resources to website, mobile platforms and applications and systems development than we can. Other competitors may offer or continue to offer faster and/or free shipping, delivery on Sunday, same-day delivery, favorable return policies or other transaction-related services which improve the user experience on their sites and which could be impractical or inefficient for our sellers to match. Competitors may be able to innovate faster and more efficiently, and new technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Some of our competitors control other products and services that are important to our success, including credit card interchange, Internet search, and mobile operating systems. Such competitors could manipulate pricing, availability, terms or operation of service related to their products and services in a manner that impacts our competitive offerings. For example, Google, which operates a shopping platform service, has from time to time made changes to its search algorithms that reduced the amount of search traffic directed to us from searches on Google. If we are unable to use or adapt to operational changes in such services, we may face higher costs for such services, face integration or technological barriers or lose customers, which could cause our business to suffer. Consumers who might use our sites to buy goods have a wide variety of alternatives, including traditional department, warehouse, boutique, discount and general merchandise stores (as well as the online and mobile operations of these traditional retailers), online retailers and their related mobile offerings, online and offline classified services and other shopping channels, such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the United States, these include Amazon.com, Facebook, Google, Wal-Mart, Target, Macy’s, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club, Rakuten, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC and Home Shopping Network, among others. In addition, consumers have a large number of online and offline channels focused on one or more of the categories of products offered on our site. Consumers also can turn to many companies that offer a variety of services that provide other channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including social media, online aggregation and classifieds platforms, such as craigslist, Oodle.com and a number of international websites operated by Schibsted ASA or Naspers Limited. Consumers also can turn to shopping-comparison sites, such as Google Shopping. In certain markets, our fixed-price listing and traditional auction-style listing formats increasingly are being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. Our Classifieds platforms offer classifieds listings in the United States and a variety of international markets. In many markets in which they operate, our Classifieds platforms compete for customers and for advertisers against more established online and offline classifieds platforms or other competing websites. Our online shopping comparison websites (Shopping.com) compete with sites such as Google Shopping, Rakuten, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, Buscapé in Latin America (owned by Naspers) and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on horizontal search engine sites, such as Google, Yahoo!, Naver and Baidu. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to help users find our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. Consumers may choose to search for products and services with a horizontal search engine or shopping comparison website, and such sites may also send users to other shopping destinations. Consumers and merchants who might use our sites to sell goods also have many alternatives, including general ecommerce sites, such as Amazon and Alibaba, and more specialized sites, such as Etsy. Our international sites also compete for sellers with general and specialized ecommerce sites. Sellers may also choose to sell their goods through other channels, such as classifieds platforms. Consumers and merchants also can create and sell through their own sites, and may choose to purchase online advertising instead of using our services. In some countries, there are online sites that have larger customer bases and greater brand recognition, as well as competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce. We increasingly may compete with local competitors in developing countries that have unique advantages, such as a greater ability to operate under local regulatory authorities. In addition, certain manufacturers may limit or cease distribution of their products through online channels, such as our sites. Manufacturers may attempt to use contractual obligations or existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit ecommerce in certain categories of goods or services. Manufacturers may also attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance or minimum advertised price arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our platforms or on the Internet generally, or at prices that would make us less attractive relative to other alternatives. The adoption by manufacturers of policies, or their use of laws or regulations, in each case discouraging or restricting the sales of goods or services over the Internet, could force our users to stop selling certain products on our platforms, which could result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brands. The principal competitive factors for us include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; brand recognition; community cohesion, interaction and size; website, mobile platform and application ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability and security; reliability of delivery and payment, including customer preference for fast delivery and free shipping and returns; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. Our operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions and events (including volatility or distress in the equity and/or debt or credit markets) have in the past negatively impacted regional and global financial markets and will likely continue to do so from time to time in the future. These events and conditions, including uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union, could have a negative and adverse impact on companies and customers with which we do business or cause us to write down our assets or investments. In addition, financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets could cause additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. Adverse impacts to the companies and customers with which we do business, the banking system, or financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a reduction in the volume and prices of transactions on our commerce platforms We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because we generate the majority of our revenues outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our financial results are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or foreign exchange rates. The results of operations of many of our internationally focused platforms are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased U.S. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, British pound, Korean won or Australian dollar, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower U.S. dollar denominated net revenues and expenses. In addition to this translation effect, a strengthening U.S. dollar will typically adversely affect the volume of goods being sold by U.S. sellers to Europe and Australia more than it positively affects the volume of goods being sold by sellers in those geographies to buyers in the United States, thereby further negatively impacting our financial results. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could significantly impact our financial results, which may have a significant impact on the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. Our international businesses, especially in the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia and Korea, and cross-border business from greater China, have generated a majority of our net revenues in recent years. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand into international markets, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union; uncertainty regarding how the United Kingdom’s access to the European Union Single Market and the wider trading, legal, regulatory and labor environments, especially in the United Kingdom and European Union, will be impacted by the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union, including the resulting impact on our business and that of our clients; expenses associated with localizing our products and services and customer data, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions or extreme fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for a particular currency; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism; import or export regulations; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, as well as U.S. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; different, uncertain, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws; risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; local licensing and reporting obligations; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Violations of the complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and could harm our business. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. Cross-border trade is an important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border trade also represents our primary (or in some cases, only) presence in certain important markets, such as Brazil/Latin America, China, and various other countries. In addition, our cross-border trade is also subject to, and may be impacted by, foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The interpretation and application of specific national or regional laws, such as those related to intellectual property rights of authentic products, selective distribution networks, and sellers in other countries listing items on the Internet, and the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the buyer, the seller, and/or the location of the item being sold) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. The interpretation and/or application of such laws could impose restrictions on, or increase the costs of, purchasing, selling, shipping, or returning goods across national borders. The shipping of goods across national borders is often more expensive and complicated than domestic shipping. Customs and duty procedures and reviews, including duty-free thresholds in various key markets, the interaction of national postal systems, and security related governmental processes at international borders, may increase costs, discourage cross-border purchases, delay transit and create shipping uncertainties. Any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade or restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical would lower our revenues and profits and could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical events, natural disasters, seasonal factors and other factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites or mobile platforms and applications, including increased usage of other websites. Our users may spend less time on our websites and our applications for mobile devices as a result of a variety of diversions, including: geopolitical events, such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity; natural disasters; power shortages or outages, major public health issues, including pandemics; social networking or other entertainment websites or mobile applications; significant local, national or global events capturing the attention of a large part of the population; and seasonal fluctuations due to a variety of factors. If any of these, or any other factors, divert our users from using of our websites or mobile applications, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a large degree on our ability to successfully address the rapidly evolving market for transactions on mobile devices. Mobile devices are increasingly used for ecommerce transactions. A significant and growing portion of our users access our platforms through mobile devices. We may lose users if we are not able to continue to meet our users’ mobile and multi-screen experience expectations. The variety of technical and other configurations across different mobile devices and platforms increases the challenges associated with this environment. In addition, a number of other companies with significant resources and a number of innovative startups have introduced products and services focusing on mobile markets. Our ability to successfully address the challenges posed by the rapidly evolving market for mobile transactions is crucial to our continued success, and any failure to continuously increase the volume of mobile transactions effected through our platforms could harm our business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative programs, products and services, the use of our products and our revenues could decline. Rapid, significant technological changes continue to confront the industries in which we operate. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge. These new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures and take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, new laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or merchants, or third parties’ intellectual property rights. Our success will depend on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our domestic and international operations in a number of areas, including consumer protection, data privacy requirements, intellectual property ownership and infringement, prohibited items and stolen goods, resale of event tickets, tax, anti-competition, export requirements, anti-corruption, labor, advertising, digital content, real estate, billing, ecommerce, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, environmental, and health and safety regulations, as well as laws and regulations intended to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and variances and inconsistencies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may further increase the cost of compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products or services in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. Regulation in the areas of privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users around the world. Much of the personal information that we collect, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple laws. User data protection laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among ourselves, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. These laws continue to develop in ways we cannot predict and that may harm our business. Regulatory scrutiny of privacy, user data protection, use of data and data collection is increasing on a global basis. We are subject to a number of privacy and similar laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate and these laws and regulations will likely continue to evolve over time, both through regulatory and legislative action and judicial decisions. Some of these laws impose requirements that are inconsistent with one another, yet regulators may claim that both apply. Complying with these varying national requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and violations of privacy-related laws can result in significant penalties. In addition, compliance with these laws may restrict our ability to provide services to our customers that they may find to be valuable. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to our practices under communications-based laws could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. In particular, because of the enormous number of texts, emails and other communications we send to our users, communications laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation (such as those described below) could result in particularly large awards or fines. For example, the Federal Communications Commission amended certain of its regulations under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act (“TCPA”), in 2012 and 2013 in a manner that could increase our exposure to liability for certain types of telephonic communication with customers, including but not limited to text messages to mobile phones. Under the TCPA, plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. We are regularly subject to class-action lawsuits, as well as individual lawsuits, containing allegations that our businesses violated the TCPA. These lawsuits, and other private lawsuits not currently alleged as class actions, seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. Given the enormous number of communications we send to our users, a determination that there have been violations of the TCPA or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. We post on our websites our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action privacy litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Data collection, privacy and security have become the subject of increasing public concern. If Internet and mobile users were to reduce their use of our websites, mobile platforms, products, and services as a result of these concerns, our business could be harmed. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Other laws and regulations could harm our business. It is not always clear how laws and regulations governing matters relevant to our business, such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, and obscenity apply to our businesses. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, mobile, and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Many of these laws, including some of those that do reference the Internet are subject to interpretation by the courts on an ongoing basis and the resulting uncertainty in the scope and application of these laws and regulations increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and governmental actions alleging violations of those laws and regulations As our activities, the products and services we offer, and our geographical scope continue to expand, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to additional requirements (including licensure) or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions. Financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our businesses. Our success and increased visibility have driven some existing businesses that perceive us to be a threat to their businesses to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators. These businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. These established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. Any changes to the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Numerous U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted to impose such regulations upon us or our users, and others may attempt to do so in the future. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing and we could be required to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues, such as forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items or restrict certain listing formats in some locations. We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our platforms subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, we were found liable in France, under French law, for transactions on some of our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers or sellers. Laws regulating Internet, mobile and ecommerce technologies outside of the United States are generally less favorable to us than those in the United States. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on us or our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us (e.g., in cross-border trade). Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. We are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory disputes, and government inquiries. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits (including class actions and individual lawsuits), government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, accessibility claims, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, services and other matters. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as the political and regulatory landscape changes; and as our company has grown larger, our businesses have expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. The outcome and impact of such claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, such investigations and proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that is subject to judgment calls. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could harm our business. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices in costly ways, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences  could harm our business. We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. We are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the United States, individual states, the European Commission or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. An increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities, including increased scrutiny in large markets such as China. Our business partnerships or agreements or arrangements with customers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Some regulators, particularly those outside of the United States, may perceive our business to be used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. Certain competition authorities have conducted market studies of our industries. Such claims and investigations, even if without foundation, may be very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort and could result in significant judgments against us or require us to change our business practices. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties’ patents. We are a defendant in a number of patent suits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. We expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims because, among other reasons: our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity; we continue to expand into new businesses, including through acquisitions; and the universe of patent owners who may claim that we, any of the companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents, and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners, continues to increase. Such claims may be brought directly against us and/or against our customers whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or we choose to do so as a business matter. We believe that an increasing number of these claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. In addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries. Patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. We have identified a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting which, if not remediated, could adversely affect our reputation, business or stock price. In reviewing the accounting for certain transactions we completed in December 2016, as part of the realignment of our legal structure, as described above under the caption “Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations - Provision for Income Taxes,” our management identified a deficiency in the effectiveness of a control intended to properly document and review relevant facts and apply the appropriate tax accounting under standards generally accepted in the United States of America, which impacted the Deferred tax asset and Income tax benefit accounts and related disclosures. As described under “Part 1, Item 4 - Controls and Procedures,” our management has concluded that the deficiency constitutes a material weakness in our internal control over financial reporting and, as a result, internal control over financial reporting was not effective as of March 31, 2017. A material weakness is a deficiency, or combination of deficiencies, in internal control over financial reporting such that there is a reasonable possibility that a material misstatement of our annual or interim consolidated financial statements will not be prevented or detected on a timely basis. Although we have developed and are implementing a plan to remediate this material weakness and believe, based on our evaluation to date, that this material weakness will be remediated during 2017, we cannot assure you that this will occur within the contemplated timeframe. Moreover, we cannot assure you that we will not identify additional material weaknesses in our internal control over financial reporting in the future. If we are unable to remediate the material weakness, our ability to record, process and report financial information accurately, and to prepare financial statements within the time periods specified by the rules and forms of the Securities and Exchange Commission, could be adversely affected. The occurrence of, or failure to remediate the material weakness may adversely affect our reputation and business and the market price of our common stock and any other securities we may issue. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. Some of our borrowings bear interest at floating rates and we have entered into agreements intended to convert the interest rate on some of our fixed rate debt instruments to floating rates. To the extent that prevailing rates increase, our interest expense under these debt instruments will increase Investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest-earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest rate risk. The fair market value of our fixed-rate investment securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. In general, fixed-rate securities with longer maturities are subject to greater interest-rate risk than those with shorter maturities. While floating rate securities generally are subject to less interest-rate risk than fixed-rate securities, floating-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates decrease and may also suffer a decline in market value if interest rates increase. Due in part to these factors, our investment income may decline or we may suffer losses in principal if securities are sold that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. In addition, relatively low interest rates limit our investment income. Fluctuations in interest rates that increase the cost of our current or future indebtedness, cause the market value of our assets to decline or reduce our investment income could adversely affect our financial results Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes StubHub, is subject to numerous risks, including: Some jurisdictions, in particular jurisdictions outside the United States, prohibit the resale of event tickets (anti-scalping laws) at prices above the face value of the tickets or at all, or highly regulate the resale of tickets, and new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions could limit or inhibit our ability to operate, or our users’ ability to continue to use, our tickets business. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations. In many jurisdictions, our tickets business depends on commercial partnerships with event organizers or licensed ticket vendors, which we must develop and maintain on acceptable terms for our tickets business to be successful. Our tickets business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. A portion of the tickets inventory sold by sellers on the StubHub platform is processed by StubHub in digital form. Systems failures, security breaches, theft or other disruptions that result in the loss of such sellers’ tickets inventory, could result in significant costs and a loss of consumer confidence in our tickets business. Lawsuits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers, and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such lawsuits could result in significant costs and require us to change our business practices in ways that negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies, event organizers, ticket brokers, and online and offline ticket resellers. Some ticketing service companies, event organizers, and professional sports teams have begun to issue event tickets through various forms of electronic ticketing systems that are designed to restrict or prohibit the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of such event tickets either to favor their own resale affiliates or to discourage resale or restrict resale of season tickets to a preferred, designated website. Ticketing service companies have also begun to use market-based pricing strategies or dynamic pricing to charge much higher prices, and impose additional restrictions on transferability, for premium tickets. Some sports teams have threatened to revoke the privileges of season ticket owners if they resell their tickets through a platform that is not affiliated with, or approved by, such sports teams. The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, may harm our business. The listing or sale by our users of unlawful, counterfeit or stolen goods or unlawful services, or sale of goods or services in an unlawful manner, has resulted and may continue to result in allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities against us (including the employees and directors of our various entities) involving activities carried out by users through our services. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet violations of certain laws, including laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, laws restricting or prohibiting the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of digital goods (e.g., event tickets, books, music and software), the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, customs laws, distance selling laws, anti-scalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, and the sale of items outside of the United States that are regulated by U.S. export controls. For example: In Turkey, local prosecutors and courts are investigating our liability for allegedly illegal actions by users of our Turkish Marketplace business (GittiGidiyor). In accordance with local law and custom, they have indicted one or more members of the board of directors of our local Turkish subsidiary. We intend to defend vigorously against any such actions and a growing number of these cases have been dismissed by the relevant courts. In August 2012, we were informed that U.S. listings of footwear with religious imagery were visible on our local Indian site and we immediately removed these listings. In September 2012, a criminal case was registered against us in India in regard to these listings, and we are challenging the prosecution of this case. In addition, allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, including but not limited to counterfeit items, have resulted in threatened and actual litigation from time to time by rights owners, including the following luxury brand owners: Tiffany & Co. in the United States; Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany; Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France; and L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie, and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. Plaintiffs in these and similar suits seek, among other remedies, injunctive relief and damages. Statutory damages for copyright or trademark violations could range up to $150,000 per copyright violation and $2,000,000 per trademark violation in the United States, and may be even higher in other jurisdictions. In the past, we have paid substantial amounts in connection with resolving certain trademark and copyright suits. These and similar suits may also force us to modify our business practices in a manner that increases costs, lowers revenue, makes our websites and mobile platforms less convenient to customers, and requires us to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings in order to combat these practices. In addition, we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal or counterfeit goods, which could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names, and make users reluctant to use our products and services. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services. Online services companies may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through their services, including claims alleging defamation, libel, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, among other things. The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges both in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Any liabilities incurred as a result of these matters could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the United States where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled, may increase. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which could harm our business. Changes to our programs to protect buyers and sellers could increase our costs and loss rate. Our eBay Money Back Guarantee program represents the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased or have received an item different from what was described. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is slowly beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the United States. Litigation involving liability for any such third-party actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments or settlements or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We believe the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is critical to our success. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the United States and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. Trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every jurisdiction. Also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. Any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could materially harm our business As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, including patent, copyright, and trademark infringement claims. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. The ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain and, regardless of the outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time and attention from our business, require us to stop selling, delay roll-out, or redesign our products, or require us to pay substantial amounts to satisfy judgments or settle claims or lawsuits or to pay substantial royalty or licensing fees, or to satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation or claims arising out of intellectual property matters, may harm our business. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent activities on our platforms would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. We face risks with respect to fraudulent activities on our platforms and periodically receive complaints from buyers and sellers who may not have received the goods that they had contracted to purchase or payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While we can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, we do not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through its buyer protection program, which in the United States we refer to as the eBay Money Back Guarantee. Although we have implemented measures to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activities, combat bad buyer experiences and increase buyer satisfaction, including evaluating sellers on the basis of their transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in combating fraudulent transactions or improving overall satisfaction among sellers, buyers, and other participants. Additional measures to address fraud could negatively affect the attractiveness of our services to buyers or sellers, resulting in a reduction in the ability to attract new users or retain current users, damage to our reputation, or a diminution in the value of our brand names. We have substantial indebtedness, and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our business to service our indebtedness. Failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility or through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, including, without limitation, any of the following: requiring us to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other available cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures, and to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies will likely increase our borrowing costs; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or other general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the United States at substantial tax cost; seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; or reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture pursuant to which certain of our outstanding debt securities were issued contain, and any debt instruments we enter into in the future may contain, financial and other covenants that restrict or could restrict, among other things, our business and operations. If we fail to pay amounts due under, or breach any of the covenants in, a debt instrument, then the lenders would typically have the right to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings thereunder (subject in certain cases to grace or cure period). Moreover, any such acceleration and required repayment of or default in respect of any of our indebtedness could, in turn, constitute an event of default under other debt instruments, thereby resulting in the acceleration and required repayment of that other indebtedness. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our outstanding indebtedness has received credit ratings from certain rating agencies. Such ratings are limited in scope and do not purport to address all risks relating to an investment in those debt securities, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating was issued. The credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. These ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency or placed on a so-called “watch list” for a possible downgrade or assigned a negative ratings outlook if, in any rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. Moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and could harm our business. Our credit ratings were downgraded as a result of the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal to our stockholders (the “Distribution”), pursuant to which PayPal became an independent company. As of January 1, 2014, our long-term debt and short-term funding were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated A, short-term rated A-1, with a stable outlook), Moody’s Investor Service (long-term rated A2, short-term rated P-1, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated A, short-term rated F-1, with a stable outlook). All of these credit rating agencies lowered their ratings in connection with the Distribution, which occurred on July 17, 2015. Since July 20, 2015, we have been rated investment grade by Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated BBB+, short-term rated A-2, with a stable outlook), Moody’s Investor Service (long-term rated Baa1, short-term rated P-2, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated BBB, short-term rated F-2, with a stable outlook). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of these ratings on our costs of funds. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and any further actions taken by these credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings, as described above, will likely increase our borrowing costs. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (“VAT”), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, governments are increasingly looking for ways to increase revenues, which has resulted in discussions about tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenues, including through indirect taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. However, some jurisdictions have implemented, or may implement, laws that require remote sellers of goods and services to collect and remit taxes on sales to customers located within the jurisdiction. In particular, the Streamlined Sales Tax Project (an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state and local governments to pursue federal legislation that would require collection and remittance of sales tax by out-of-state sellers) could allow states that meet certain simplification and other criteria to require out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. The adoption of such legislation could result in a use tax collection responsibility for certain of our sellers. This collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements would make selling on our websites and mobile platforms less attractive for small business retailers and would harm our business, and the proliferation of state legislation to expand sales and use tax collection on Internet sales could adversely affect some of our sellers and indirectly harm our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local levels that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. While the U.S. federal government’s moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce has been temporarily extended, this moratorium does not prohibit federal, state or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. From time to time, some taxing authorities in the United States have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes imposed on our services. These notifications have not resulted in any significant tax liabilities to date, but there is a risk that some jurisdiction may be successful in the future, which would harm our business. Similar issues exist outside of the United States, where the application of VAT or other indirect taxes on ecommerce providers is complex and evolving. While we attempt to comply in those jurisdictions where it is clear that a tax is due, some of our subsidiaries have, from time to time, received claims relating to the applicability of indirect taxes to our fees. We have been paying VAT on fees charged to certain of our users in the European Union based on the service provider’s location. On January 1, 2015, changes to the rules determining the place of supply (and thus the country of taxation) for all European Union based providers of electronically supplied services were implemented that require that we pay VAT based on the residence or normal place of business of our customers. These changes may result in our paying a higher rate of VAT on such fees. Additionally, we pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. In certain jurisdictions, we collect and remit indirect taxes on our fees and pay taxes on our purchases of goods and services. However, tax authorities may raise questions about our calculation, reporting and collection of taxes and may ask us to remit additional taxes, as well as the proper calculation of such taxes. Should any new taxes become applicable or if the taxes we pay are found to be deficient, our business could be harmed. A taxing authority may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. For example, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (“IRS”) now requires that certain payments to sellers be reported to the sellers and the IRS on an annual basis. Any failure by us to meet these requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. Taxing authorities may also seek to impose tax collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Some jurisdictions could assert that we are responsible for tax on the underlying goods or services sold on our sites. Imposition of a record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Tax authorities may also require us to help ensure compliance by our users by promulgating legislation regulating professional sellers, including tax reporting and collection requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our business structure. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could harm our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by a shift in our jurisdictional earning mix, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. In light of continuing fiscal challenges in certain U.S. states and in many countries in Europe, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue, including corporate income taxes. For example, the economic downturn reduced tax revenues for United States federal and state governments, and a number of proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities have been implemented or are being considered at various levels of government. These include a number of proposals to modify the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to companies, like ours, operating in multiple U.S. and foreign jurisdictions which, if enacted, could materially increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S. states have attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state, and taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions may take similar actions. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas to increase the amount of taxable income or loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Similarly, in Europe, and elsewhere in the world, there are various tax reform efforts underway designed to ensure that corporate entities are taxed on a larger percentage of their earnings. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of these efforts. If more taxing authorities are successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that do not have a physical presence in their respective jurisdictions, this could increase our effective tax rate. We may be subject to sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. One or more states, the U.S. federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been contemplated by several states and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if one of our companies was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which it operates. Certain of our companies are required to report to the IRS on customers subject to U.S. income tax who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a calendar year. As a result, we are required to request tax identification numbers from certain payees, track payments by tax identification number and, under certain conditions, withhold a portion of payments and forward such withholding to the IRS. We have modified our systems to meet these requirements and expect increased operational costs and changes to our user experience in connection with complying with these reporting obligations. Any failure by us to meet these requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and cyberattacks. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users’ personal financial information. In addition, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. An increasing number of websites, including those owned by several other large Internet and offline companies, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their websites or infrastructure. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable, or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. Certain efforts may be state sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources and therefore may be even more difficult to detect. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities, fraud, trickery or other means of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users’ personal information, cause interruption or degradations in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation. In addition, our users have been and likely will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate user names, passwords, payment card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers. Our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security incidents and third parties may be able to access our users’ proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through our systems. Any security breach at a company providing services to us or our users could have similar effects. In May 2014, we publicly announced that criminals were able to penetrate and steal certain data, including user names, encrypted user passwords and other non-financial user data. Upon making this announcement, we required all buyers and sellers on our platform to reset their passwords in order to log into their account. The breach and subsequent password reset have negatively impacted the business. In July 2014, a putative class action lawsuit was filed against us for alleged violations and harm resulting from the breach. The lawsuit was recently dismissed with leave to amend. In addition, we have received requests for information and are subject to investigations regarding this incident from numerous regulatory and other government agencies across the world. We may also need to expend significant additional resources to protect against security breaches or to redress problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult and costly as we expand the number of markets where we operate. Additionally, our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches and we may not be able to fully collect, if at all, under these insurance policies. Systems failures or cyberattacks and resulting interruptions in the availability of or degradation in the performance of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. Our systems may experience service interruptions or degradation due to of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, or other events. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. We have experienced and will likely continue to experience system failures, denial of service attacks and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce the speed or functionality of our websites and mobile applications. These events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the speed or other functionality of our websites and mobile applications could materially harm our business. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Moreover, to the extent that any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their businesses, these customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. We also rely on facilities, components and services supplied by third parties and our business may be materially adversely affected to the extent these components or services do not meet our expectations or these third parties cease to provide the services or facilities. In particular, a decision by any of our third party hosting providers to close a facility that we use could cause system interruptions and delays, result in loss of critical data and cause lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. Acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures, and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. We have acquired a significant number of businesses of varying size and scope, technologies, services, and products and have in July 2015 distributed 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal to our stockholders, pursuant to which PayPal became an independent company, and sold our Enterprise business in November 2015. We also expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. These transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, merchants, vendors and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; declining employee morale and retention issues affecting employees of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; difficulty making new and strategic hires of new employees diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to the transaction, and in the case of an acquisition, integration and administration; the need to provide transition services to a disposed of company, which may result in the diversion of resources and focus; the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise as a result; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies or whose controls, procedures and policies did not meet applicable legal and other standards; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets; derivative lawsuits resulting from the acquisition or disposition; liability for activities of the acquired or disposed of company before the transaction, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities and, in the case of dispositions, liabilities to the acquirors of those businesses under contractual provisions such as representations, warranties and indemnities; the potential loss of key employees following the transaction; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information by us or a third party acquiring assets or businesses from us, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure; and our dependence on the acquired business’ accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls and processes will lead to errors in our consolidated financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. At any given time, we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Any acquisitions or dispositions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. We have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and/or lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Our strategic investments may also expose us to additional risks. Any circumstances, which may be out of our control, that adversely affect the value of our investments, or cost resulting from regulatory action or lawsuits in connection with our investments, could harm our business or negatively impact our financial results. Our success largely depends on key personnel. Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. The loss of senior management or other key personnel could harm our business. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including key engineering and product development personnel, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel. Competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley where our corporate headquarters are located, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment and fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. In addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key personnel, could harm our business. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our sellers could harm our business. A number of third parties provide services to us or to our sellers. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our sellers list items and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes, lockouts, or work stoppages), or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our sellers could harm our business. Price increases by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that provide services to us and our sellers and clients could also reduce the number of listings on our platforms or make it more difficult for our sellers to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. Some third parties who provide services to us or our sellers may have or gain market power and be able to increase their prices to us without competitive constraint. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service, which is facing ongoing fiscal challenges, has instituted postal rate increases and announced that it is considering closing thousands of local post offices and ending Saturday mail delivery. While we continue to work with global carriers to offer our sellers a variety of shipping options and to enhance their shipping experience, postal rate increases may reduce the competitiveness of certain sellers’ offerings, and postal service changes could require certain sellers to utilize alternatives which could be more expensive or inconvenient, which could in turn decrease the number of transactions on our sites, thereby harming our business. We have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including some customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and could harm our business. There can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our sellers will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us or our sellers on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Our developer platforms, which are open to merchants and third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. We provide third-party developers with access to application programming interfaces, software development kits and other tools designed to allow them to produce applications for use, with a particular focus on mobile applications. There can be no assurance that merchants or third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. In addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions. It is possible that merchants and third-party developers who utilize our development platforms or tools could violate these regulatory restrictions and we may be held responsible for such violations, which could harm our business. The Distribution may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits and may adversely affect our business. We may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the Distribution and the Distribution may in fact adversely affect our business. As an independent, publicly traded company, we will be a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Separating the businesses may also eliminate or reduce synergies or economies of scale that existed prior to the Distribution, which could harm our business. We could incur significant liability if the Distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the Distribution qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from PayPal and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our shareholders and we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the IRS could determine on audit that the Distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the Distribution is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. We may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the Distribution. We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with PayPal to govern the Distribution and the relationship of the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and PayPal. The indemnity rights we have against PayPal under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. In addition, our indemnity obligations to PayPal may be significant and these risks could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.",0.999794751249,0.970068027211
21,1065088, EBAY , 2016-07-21 ,2016,2," You should carefully review the following discussion of the risks that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information appearing in this report, for important information regarding risks that affect us. Risk Factors That May Affect our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our operating and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this “Risk Factors” section. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings (loss) accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our consolidated financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. The trading price of our common stock and debt securities could decline, perhaps substantially, as a result of the factors described in this paragraph. Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in ecommerce may harm our business. The businesses and markets in which we operate are intensely competitive. We currently and potentially compete with a wide variety of online and offline companies providing goods and services to consumers and merchants. The Internet and mobile networks provide new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods and services. We compete in two-sided markets, and must attract both buyers and sellers to use our platforms. Consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through us have more and more alternatives, and merchants have more channels to reach consumers. We expect competition to continue to intensify. Online and offline businesses increasingly are competing with each other and our competitors include a number of online and offline retailers with significant resources, large user communities and well-established brands. Moreover, the barriers to entry into these channels can be low, and businesses easily can launch online sites or mobile platforms and applications at nominal cost by using commercially available software or partnering with any of a number of successful ecommerce companies. As we respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among sellers, which could reduce activity on our platform and harm our profitability. We face increased competitive pressure online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, ecommerce and mobile commerce has significantly increased, due to, among other factors, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. Also, certain platform businesses, such as Alibaba, Apple, Google and Facebook, many of whom are larger than us or have greater capitalization, have a dominant and secure position in other industries or certain significant markets, and offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer. If we are unable to change our products, offerings and services in ways that reflect the changing demands of ecommerce and mobile commerce marketplaces, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher expected service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), or compete effectively with and adapt to changes in larger platform businesses, our business will suffer. Competitors with other revenue sources may also be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote more resources to website, mobile platforms and applications and systems development than we can. Other competitors may offer or continue to offer faster and/or free shipping, delivery on Sunday, same-day delivery, favorable return policies or other transaction-related services which improve the user experience on their sites and which could be impractical or inefficient for our sellers to match. Competitors may be able to innovate faster and more efficiently, and new technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Some of our competitors control other products and services that are important to our success, including credit card interchange, Internet search, and mobile operating systems. Such competitors could manipulate pricing, availability, terms or operation of service related to their products and services in a manner that impacts our competitive offerings. For example, Google, which operates a shopping platform service, has from time to time made changes to its search algorithms that reduced the amount of search traffic directed to us from searches on Google. If we are unable to use or adapt to operational changes in such services, we may face higher costs for such services, face integration or technological barriers or lose customers, which could cause our business to suffer. Consumers who might use our sites to buy goods have a wide variety of alternatives, including traditional department, warehouse, boutique, discount and general merchandise stores (as well as the online and mobile operations of these traditional retailers), online retailers and their related mobile offerings, online and offline classified services and other shopping channels, such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the United States, these include Amazon.com (which recently opened an experimental brick-and-mortar store in New York City and continues to expand into new geographies and lines of business), Google, Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club, Rakuten, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC and Home Shopping Network, among others. In addition, consumers have a large number of online and offline channels focused on one or more of the categories of products offered on our site. Consumers also can turn to many companies that offer a variety of services that provide other channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including social media, online aggregation and classifieds platforms, such as craigslist, Oodle.com and a number of international websites operated by Schibsted ASA or Naspers Limited. Consumers also can turn to shopping-comparison sites, such as Google Shopping. In certain markets, our fixed-price listing and traditional auction-style listing formats increasingly are being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. Our Classifieds platforms offer classifieds listings in the United States and a variety of international markets. In many markets in which they operate, our Classifieds platforms compete for customers and for advertisers against more established online and offline classifieds platforms or other competing websites. Our online shopping comparison websites (Shopping.com) compete with sites such as Google Shopping, Rakuten, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, Buscapé in Latin America (owned by Naspers) and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on horizontal search engine sites, such as Google, Yahoo!, Naver and Baidu. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to help users find our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. Consumers may choose to search for products and services with a horizontal search engine or shopping comparison website, and such sites may also send users to other shopping destinations. Consumers and merchants who might use our sites to sell goods also have many alternatives, including general ecommerce sites, such as Amazon and Alibaba, and more specialized sites, such as Etsy. Our international sites also compete for sellers with general and specialized ecommerce sites. Sellers may also choose to sell their goods through other channels, such as classifieds platforms. Consumers and merchants also can create and sell through their own sites, and may choose to purchase online advertising instead of using our services. In some countries, there are online sites that have larger customer bases and greater brand recognition, as well as competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce. We increasingly may compete with local competitors in developing countries that have unique advantages, such as a greater ability to operate under local regulatory authorities. In addition, certain manufacturers may limit or cease distribution of their products through online channels, such as our sites. Manufacturers may attempt to use contractual obligations or existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit ecommerce in certain categories of goods or services. Manufacturers may also attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance or minimum advertised price arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our platforms or on the Internet generally, or at prices that would make us less attractive relative to other alternatives. The adoption by manufacturers of policies, or their use of laws or regulations, in each case discouraging or restricting the sales of goods or services over the Internet, could force our users to stop selling certain products on our platforms, which could result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brands. The principal competitive factors for us include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; brand recognition; community cohesion, interaction and size; website, mobile platform and application ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability and security; reliability of delivery and payment, including customer preference for fast delivery and free shipping and returns; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. Our operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions and events (including volatility or distress in the equity and/or debt or credit markets) have in the past negatively impacted regional and global financial markets and will likely continue to do so from time to time in the future. Uncertainties relating to the ability of Greece to remain in the European Monetary Union may adversely impact the economy of the European Union, which is an important market in which we do business. These events and conditions could have a negative and adverse impact on companies and customers with which we do business or cause us to write down our assets or investments. In addition, financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets could cause additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. Adverse impacts to the companies and customers with which we do business, the banking system, or financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a reduction in the volume and prices of transactions on our commerce platforms. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because we generate the majority of our revenues outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our financial results are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or foreign exchange rates. The results of operations of many of our internationally focused platforms are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased U.S. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, British pound, Korean won or Australian dollar, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower U.S. dollar denominated net revenues and expenses. In addition to this translation effect, a strengthening U.S. dollar will typically adversely affect the volume of goods being sold by U.S. sellers to Europe and Australia more than it positively affects the volume of goods being sold by sellers in those geographies to buyers in the United States, thereby further negatively impacting our financial results. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could significantly impact our financial results, which may have a significant impact on the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. Our international businesses, especially in the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia and Korea, and cross-border business from greater China, have generated a majority of our net revenues in recent years. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand into international markets, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: uncertainties and instability in economic and market conditions caused by the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union; uncertainty regarding how the United Kingdom’s access to the European Union Single Market and the wider trading, legal, regulatory and labor environments, especially in the United Kingdom and European Union, will be impacted by the United Kingdom’s vote to exit the European Union, including the resulting impact on our business and that of our clients; expenses associated with localizing our products and services and customer data, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions or extreme fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for a particular currency; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism; import or export regulations; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, as well as U.S. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; different, uncertain, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws; risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; local licensing and reporting obligations; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Violations of the complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and could harm our business. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. Cross-border trade is an important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border trade also represents our primary (or in some cases, only) presence in certain important markets, such as Brazil/Latin America, China, and various other countries. In addition, our cross-border trade is also subject to, and may be impacted by, foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The interpretation and application of specific national or regional laws, such as those related to intellectual property rights of authentic products, selective distribution networks, and sellers in other countries listing items on the Internet, and the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the buyer, the seller, and/or the location of the item being sold) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. The interpretation and/or application of such laws could impose restrictions on, or increase the costs of, purchasing, selling, shipping, or returning goods across national borders. The shipping of goods across national borders is often more expensive and complicated than domestic shipping. Customs and duty procedures and reviews, including duty-free thresholds in various key markets, the interaction of national postal systems, and security related governmental processes at international borders, may increase costs, discourage cross-border purchases, delay transit and create shipping uncertainties. Any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade or restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical would lower our revenues and profits and could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical events, natural disasters, seasonal factors and other factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites or mobile platforms and applications, including increased usage of other websites. Our users may spend less time on our websites and our applications for mobile devices as a result of a variety of diversions, including: geopolitical events, such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity; natural disasters; power shortages or outages, major public health issues, including pandemics; social networking or other entertainment websites or mobile applications; significant local, national or global events capturing the attention of a large part of the population; and seasonal fluctuations due to a variety of factors. If any of these, or any other factors, divert our users from using of our websites or mobile applications, our business could be materially adversely affected. Our success depends to a large degree on our ability to successfully address the rapidly evolving market for transactions on mobile devices. Mobile devices are increasingly used for ecommerce transactions. A significant and growing portion of our users access our platforms through mobile devices. We may lose users if we are not able to continue to meet our users’ mobile and multi-screen experience expectations. The variety of technical and other configurations across different mobile devices and platforms increases the challenges associated with this environment. In addition, a number of other companies with significant resources and a number of innovative startups have introduced products and services focusing on mobile markets. Our ability to successfully address the challenges posed by the rapidly evolving market for mobile transactions is crucial to our continued success, and any failure to continuously increase the volume of mobile transactions effected through our platforms could harm our business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative programs, products and services, the use of our products and our revenues could decline. Rapid, significant technological changes continue to confront the industries in which we operate. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge. These new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures and take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, new laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or merchants, or third parties’ intellectual property rights. Our success will depend on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our domestic and international operations in a number of areas, including consumer protection, data privacy requirements, intellectual property ownership and infringement, prohibited items and stolen goods, resale of event tickets, tax, anti-competition, export requirements, anti-corruption, labor, advertising, digital content, real estate, billing, ecommerce, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, environmental, and health and safety regulations, as well as laws and regulations intended to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and variances and inconsistencies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may further increase the cost of compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products or services in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures.  Regulation in the areas of privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users around the world. Much of the personal information that we collect, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple laws. User data protection laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among ourselves, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. These laws continue to develop in ways we cannot predict and that may harm our business. Regulatory scrutiny of privacy, user data protection, use of data and data collection is increasing on a global basis. We are subject to a number of privacy and similar laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate and these laws and regulations will likely continue to evolve over time, both through regulatory and legislative action and judicial decisions. Some of these laws impose requirements that are inconsistent with one another, yet regulators may claim that both apply. Complying with these varying national requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and violations of privacy-related laws can result in significant penalties. In addition, compliance with these laws may restrict our ability to provide services to our customers that they may find to be valuable. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to our practices under communications-based laws could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. In particular, because of the enormous number of texts, emails and other communications we send to our users, communications laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation (such as those described below) could result in particularly large awards or fines. For example, the Federal Communications Commission amended certain of its regulations under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, or TCPA, in 2012 and 2013 in a manner that could increase our exposure to liability for certain types of telephonic communication with customers, including but not limited to text messages to mobile phones. Under the TCPA, plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. We are regularly subject to class-action lawsuits, as well as individual lawsuits, containing allegations that our businesses violated the TCPA. These lawsuits, and other private lawsuits not currently alleged as class actions, seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. Given the enormous number of communications we send to our users, a determination that there have been violations of the TCPA or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. We post on our websites our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action privacy litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Data collection, privacy and security have become the subject of increasing public concern. If Internet and mobile users were to reduce their use of our websites, mobile platforms, products, and services as a result of these concerns, our business could be harmed. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Other laws and regulations could harm our business. It is not always clear how laws and regulations governing matters relevant to our business, such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, and obscenity apply to our businesses. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, mobile, and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Many of these laws, including some of those that do reference the Internet are subject to interpretation by the courts on an ongoing basis and the resulting uncertainty in the scope and application of these laws and regulations increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and governmental actions alleging violations of those laws and regulations. As our activities, the products and services we offer, and our geographical scope continue to expand, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to additional requirements (including licensure) or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions. Financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our businesses. Our success and increased visibility have driven some existing businesses that perceive us to be a threat to their businesses to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators. These businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. These established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. Any changes to the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Numerous U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted to impose such regulations upon us or our users, and others may attempt to do so in the future. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing and we could be required to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues, such as forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items or restrict certain listing formats in some locations. We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our platforms subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, we were found liable in France, under French law, for transactions on some of our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers or sellers. Laws regulating Internet, mobile and ecommerce technologies outside of the United States are generally less favorable to us than those in the United States. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on us or our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us (e.g., in cross-border trade). Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. We are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory disputes, and government inquiries. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits (including class actions and individual lawsuits), government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, accessibility claims, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, services and other matters. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our company has grown larger, our businesses have expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. The outcome and impact of such claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, such investigations and proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that is subject to judgment calls. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could harm our business. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices in costly ways, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could harm our business. We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. We are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the United States, individual states, the European Commission or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. An increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities, including increased scrutiny in large markets such as China. Our business partnerships or agreements or arrangements with customers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Some regulators, particularly those outside of the United States, may perceive our business to be used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. Certain competition authorities have conducted market studies of our industries. Such claims and investigations, even if without foundation, may be very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort and could result in significant judgments against us or require us to change our business practices. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties’ patents. We are a defendant in a number of patent suits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. We expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims because, among other reasons: our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity; we continue to expand into new businesses, including through acquisitions; and the universe of patent owners who may claim that we, any of the companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents, and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners, continues to increase. Such claims may be brought directly against us and/or against our customers whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or we choose to do so as a business matter. We believe that an increasing number of these claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. In addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some  technology industries. Patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. Some of our borrowings bear interest at floating rates and we have entered into agreements intended to convert the interest rate on some of our fixed rate debt instruments to floating rates. To the extent that prevailing rates increase, our interest expense under these debt instruments will increase. Investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest-earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest rate risk. The fair market value of our fixed-rate investment securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. In general, fixed-rate securities with longer maturities are subject to greater interest-rate risk than those with shorter maturities. While floating rate securities generally are subject to less interest-rate risk than fixed-rate securities, floating-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates decrease and may also suffer a decline in market value if interest rates increase. Due in part to these factors, our investment income may decline or we may suffer losses in principal if securities are sold that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. In addition, relatively low interest rates limit our investment income. Fluctuations in interest rates that increase the cost of our current or future indebtedness, cause the market value of our assets to decline or reduce our investment income could adversely affect our financial results. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes StubHub, is subject to numerous risks, including: Some jurisdictions, in particular jurisdictions outside the United States, prohibit the resale of event tickets (anti-scalping laws) at prices above the face value of the tickets or at all, or highly regulate the resale of tickets, and new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions could limit or inhibit our ability to operate, or our users’ ability to continue to use, our tickets business. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations. In many jurisdictions, our tickets business depends on commercial partnerships with event organizers or licensed ticket vendors, which we must develop and maintain on acceptable terms for our tickets business to be successful. Our tickets business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. A portion of the tickets inventory sold by sellers on the StubHub platform is processed by StubHub in digital form. Systems failures, security breaches, theft or other disruptions that result in the loss of such sellers’ tickets inventory, could result in significant costs and a loss of consumer confidence in our tickets business. Lawsuits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers, and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such lawsuits could result in significant costs and require us to change our business practices in ways that negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies, event organizers, ticket brokers, and online and offline ticket resellers. Some ticketing service companies, event organizers, and professional sports teams have begun to issue event tickets through various forms of electronic ticketing systems that are designed to restrict or prohibit the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of such event tickets either to favor their own resale affiliates or to discourage resale or restrict resale of season tickets to a preferred, designated website. Ticketing service companies have also begun to use market-based pricing strategies or dynamic pricing to charge much higher prices, and impose additional restrictions on transferability, for premium tickets. Some sports teams have threatened to revoke the privileges of season ticket owners if they resell their tickets through a platform that is not affiliated with, or approved by, such sports teams. The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, may harm our business. The listing or sale by our users of unlawful, counterfeit or stolen goods or unlawful services, or sale of goods or services in an unlawful manner, has resulted and may continue to result in allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities against us (including the employees and directors of our various entities) involving activities carried out by users through our services. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet violations of certain laws, including laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, laws restricting or prohibiting the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of digital goods (e.g., event tickets, books, music and software), the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, customs laws, distance selling laws, anti-scalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, and the sale of items outside of the United States that are regulated by U.S. export controls. For example: In Turkey, local prosecutors and courts are investigating our liability for allegedly illegal actions by users of our Turkish Marketplace business (GittiGidiyor). In accordance with local law and custom, they have indicted one or more members of the board of directors of our local Turkish subsidiary. We intend to defend vigorously against any such actions and a growing number of these cases have been dismissed by the relevant courts. In August 2012, we were informed that U.S. listings of footwear with religious imagery were visible on our local Indian site and we immediately removed these listings. In September 2012, a criminal case was registered against us in India in regard to these listings, and we are challenging the prosecution of this case. In addition, allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, including but not limited to counterfeit items, have resulted in threatened and actual litigation from time to time by rights owners, including the following luxury brand owners: Tiffany & Co. in the United States; Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany; Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France; and L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie, and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. Plaintiffs in these and similar suits seek, among other remedies, injunctive relief and damages. Statutory damages for copyright or trademark violations could range up to $150,000 per copyright violation and $2,000,000 per trademark violation in the United States, and may be even higher in other jurisdictions. In the past, we have paid substantial amounts in connection with resolving certain trademark and copyright suits. These and similar suits may also force us to modify our business practices in a manner that increases costs, lowers revenue, makes our websites and mobile platforms less convenient to customers, and requires us to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings in order to combat these practices. In addition, we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal or counterfeit goods, which could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names, and make users reluctant to use our products and services. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services. Online services companies may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through their services, including claims alleging defamation, libel, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, among other things. The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges both in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Any liabilities incurred as a result of these matters could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the United States where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled, may increase. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which could harm our business. Changes to our programs to protect buyers and sellers could increase our costs and loss rate. Our eBay Money Back Guarantee program represents the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased or have received an item different from what was described. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is slowly beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the United States. Litigation involving liability for any such third-party actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments or settlements or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We believe the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is critical to our success. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the United States and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. Trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every jurisdiction. Also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. Any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could materially harm our business. As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, including patent, copyright, and trademark infringement claims. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. The ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain and, regardless of the outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time and attention from our business, require us to stop selling, delay roll-out, or redesign our products, or require us to pay substantial amounts to satisfy judgments or settle claims or lawsuits or to pay substantial royalty or licensing fees, or to satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation or claims arising out of intellectual property matters, may harm our business. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent activities on our platforms would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. We face risks with respect to fraudulent activities on our platforms and periodically receive complaints from buyers and sellers who may not have received the goods that they had contracted to purchase or payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While we can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, we do not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through its buyer protection program, which in the United States we refer to as the eBay Money Back Guarantee. Although we have implemented measures to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activities, combat bad buyer experiences and increase buyer satisfaction, including evaluating sellers on the basis of their transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in combating fraudulent transactions or improving overall satisfaction among sellers, buyers, and other participants. Additional measures to address fraud could negatively affect the attractiveness of our services to buyers or sellers, resulting in a reduction in the ability to attract new users or retain current users, damage to our reputation, or a diminution in the value of our brand names. We have substantial indebtedness, and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our business to service our indebtedness. Failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility or through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, including, without limitation, any of the following: requiring us to use a significant portion of our cash flow from operations and other available cash to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures, and to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies will likely increase our borrowing costs; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or other general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the United States at substantial tax cost; seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; or reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture pursuant to which certain of our outstanding debt securities were issued contain, and any debt instruments we enter into in the future may contain, financial and other covenants that restrict or could restrict, among other things, our business and operations. If we fail to pay amounts due under, or breach any of the covenants in, a debt instrument, then the lenders would typically have the right to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings thereunder (subject in certain cases to grace or cure period). Moreover, any such acceleration and required repayment of or default in respect of any of our indebtedness could, in turn, constitute an event of default under other debt instruments, thereby resulting in the acceleration and required repayment of that other indebtedness. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. Some of our outstanding indebtedness has received credit ratings from certain rating agencies.  Such ratings are limited in scope and do not purport to address all risks relating to an investment in those debt securities, but rather reflect only the view of each rating agency at the time the rating was issued. The credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. These ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that such ratings will not be lowered, suspended or withdrawn entirely by a rating agency or placed on a so-called “watch list” for a possible downgrade or assigned a negative ratings outlook if, in any rating agency’s judgment, circumstances so warrant. Moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows and could harm our business. Our credit ratings were downgraded as a result of the distribution of 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal to our stockholders (the “Distribution”), pursuant to which PayPal became an independent company. As of January 1, 2014, our long-term debt and short-term funding were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated A, short-term rated A-1, with a stable outlook), Moody’s Investor Service (long-term rated A2, short-term rated P-1, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated A, short-term rated F-1, with a stable outlook). All of these credit rating agencies lowered their ratings in connection with the Distribution, which occurred on July 17, 2015. Since July 20, 2015, we have been rated investment grade by Standard and Poor’s Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated BBB+, short-term rated A-2, with a stable outlook), Moody’s Investor Service (long-term rated Baa1, short-term rated P-2, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated BBB, short-term rated F-2, with a stable outlook). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of these ratings on our costs of funds. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and any further actions taken by these credit rating agencies to lower our credit ratings, as described above, will likely increase our borrowing costs.  Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, governments are increasingly looking for ways to increase revenues, which has resulted in discussions about tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenues, including through indirect taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. However, some jurisdictions have implemented, or may implement, laws that require remote sellers of goods and services to collect and remit taxes on sales to customers located within the jurisdiction. In particular, the Streamlined Sales Tax Project (an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state and local governments to pursue federal legislation that would require collection and remittance of sales tax by out-of-state sellers) could allow states that meet certain simplification and other criteria to require out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. The adoption of such legislation could result in a use tax collection responsibility for certain of our sellers. This collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements would make selling on our websites and mobile platforms less attractive for small business retailers and would harm our business, and the proliferation of state legislation to expand sales and use tax collection on Internet sales could adversely affect some of our sellers and indirectly harm our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local levels that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. While the U.S. federal government’s moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce has been temporarily extended, this moratorium does not prohibit federal, state or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. From time to time, some taxing authorities in the United States have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes imposed on our services. These notifications have not resulted in any significant tax liabilities to date, but there is a risk that some jurisdiction may be successful in the future, which would harm our business. Similar issues exist outside of the United States, where the application of VAT or other indirect taxes on ecommerce providers is complex and evolving. While we attempt to comply in those jurisdictions where it is clear that a tax is due, some of our subsidiaries have, from time to time, received claims relating to the applicability of indirect taxes to our fees. We have been paying VAT on fees charged to certain of our users in the European Union based on the service provider’s location. On January 1, 2015, changes to the rules determining the place of supply (and thus the country of taxation) for all European Union based providers of electronically supplied services were implemented that require that we pay VAT based on the residence or normal place of business of our customers. These changes may result in our paying a higher rate of VAT on such fees. Additionally, we pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. In certain jurisdictions, we collect and remit indirect taxes on our fees and pay taxes on our purchases of goods and services. However, tax authorities may raise questions about our calculation, reporting and collection of taxes and may ask us to remit additional taxes, as well as the proper calculation of such taxes. Should any new taxes become applicable or if the taxes we pay are found to be deficient, our business could be harmed. A taxing authority may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. For example, the U.S. Internal Revenue Service (IRS) now requires that certain payments to sellers be reported to the sellers and the IRS on an annual basis. Any failure by us to meet these requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. Taxing authorities may also seek to impose tax collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Some jurisdictions could assert that we are responsible for tax on the underlying goods or services sold on our sites. Imposition of a record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Tax authorities may also require us to help ensure compliance by our users by promulgating legislation regulating professional sellers, including tax reporting and collection requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our business structure. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could harm our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by a shift in our jurisdictional earning mix, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. In light of continuing fiscal challenges in certain U.S. states and in many countries in Europe, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue, including corporate income taxes. For example, the economic downturn reduced tax revenues for United States federal and state governments, and a number of proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities have been implemented or are being considered at various levels of government. These include a number of proposals to modify the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to companies, like ours, operating in multiple U.S. and foreign jurisdictions which, if enacted, could materially increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S. states have attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state, and taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions may take similar actions. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas to increase the amount of taxable income or loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Similarly, in Europe, and elsewhere in the world, there are various tax reform efforts underway designed to ensure that corporate entities are taxed on a larger percentage of their earnings. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of these efforts. If more taxing authorities are successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that do not have a physical presence in their respective jurisdictions, this could increase our effective tax rate. We may be subject to sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. One or more states, the U.S. federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been contemplated by several states and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if one of our companies was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which it operates. Certain of our companies are required to report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on customers subject to U.S. income tax who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a calendar year. As a result, we are required to request tax identification numbers from certain payees, track payments by tax identification number and, under certain conditions, withhold a portion of payments and forward such withholding to the IRS. We have modified our systems to meet these requirements and expect increased operational costs and changes to our user experience in connection with complying with these reporting obligations. Any failure by us to meet these requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and cyberattacks. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users’ personal financial information. In addition, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. An increasing number of websites, including those owned by several other large Internet and offline companies, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their websites or infrastructure. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable, or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. Certain efforts may be state sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources and therefore may be even more difficult to detect. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities, fraud, trickery or other means of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users’ personal information, cause interruption or degradations in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation. In addition, our users have been and likely will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate user names, passwords, payment card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers. Our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security incidents and third parties may be able to access our users’ proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through our systems. Any security breach at a company providing services to us or our users could have similar effects. In May 2014, we publicly announced that criminals were able to penetrate and steal certain data, including user names, encrypted user passwords and other non-financial user data. Upon making this announcement, we required all buyers and sellers on our platform to reset their passwords in order to log into their account. The breach and subsequent password reset have negatively impacted the business. In July 2014, a putative class action lawsuit was filed against us for alleged violations and harm resulting from the breach. The lawsuit was recently dismissed with leave to amend. In addition, we have received requests for information and are subject to investigations regarding this incident from numerous regulatory and other government agencies across the world. We may also need to expend significant additional resources to protect against security breaches or to redress problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult and costly as we expand the number of markets where we operate. Additionally, our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches and we may not be able to fully collect, if at all, under these insurance policies. Systems failures or cyberattacks and resulting interruptions in the availability of or degradation in the performance of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. Our systems may experience service interruptions or degradation due to of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, or other events. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. We have experienced and will likely continue to experience system failures, denial of service attacks and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce the speed or functionality of our websites and mobile applications. These events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the speed or other functionality of our websites and mobile applications could materially harm our business. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Moreover, to the extent that any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their businesses, these customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. We also rely on facilities, components and services supplied by third parties and our business may be materially adversely affected to the extent these components or services do not meet our expectations or these third parties cease to provide the services or facilities. In particular, a decision by any of our third party hosting providers to close a facility that we use could cause system interruptions and delays, result in loss of critical data and cause lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. Acquisitions, dispositions, joint ventures, and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. We have acquired a significant number of businesses of varying size and scope, technologies, services, and products and have in July 2015 distributed 100% of the outstanding common stock of PayPal to our stockholders, pursuant to which PayPal became an independent company, and sold our Enterprise business in November 2015. We also expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. These transactions may involve significant challenges and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, merchants, vendors and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; declining employee morale and retention issues affecting employees of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; difficulty making new and strategic hires of new employees; diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to the transaction, and in the case of an acquisition, integration and administration; the need to provide transition services to a disposed of company, which may result in the diversion of resources and focus; the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise as a result; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies or whose controls, procedures and policies did not meet applicable legal and other standards; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets; derivative lawsuits resulting from the acquisition or disposition; liability for activities of the acquired or disposed of company before the transaction, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities and, in the case of dispositions, liabilities to the acquirors of those businesses under contractual provisions such as representations, warranties and indemnities; the potential loss of key employees following the transaction; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information by us or a third party acquiring assets or businesses from us, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure; and our dependence on the acquired business’ accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls and processes will lead to errors in our consolidated financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Any acquisitions or dispositions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. We have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and/or lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Our strategic investments may also expose us to additional risks. Any circumstances, which may be out of our control, that adversely affect the value of our investments, or cost resulting from regulatory action or lawsuits in connection with our investments, could harm our business or negatively impact our financial results. Our success largely depends on key personnel. Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. The loss of senior management or other key personnel could harm our business. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including key engineering and product development personnel, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel. Competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley where our corporate headquarters are located, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment and fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. In addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key personnel, could harm our business. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our sellers could harm our business. A number of third parties provide services to us or to our sellers. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our sellers list items and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes, lockouts, or work stoppages), or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our sellers could harm our business. Price increases by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that provide services to us and our sellers and clients could also reduce the number of listings on our platforms or make it more difficult for our sellers to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. Some third parties who provide services to us or our sellers may have or gain market power and be able to increase their prices to us without competitive constraint. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service, which is facing ongoing fiscal challenges, has instituted postal rate increases and announced that it is considering closing thousands of local post offices and ending Saturday mail delivery. While we continue to work with global carriers to offer our sellers a variety of shipping options and to enhance their shipping experience, postal rate increases may reduce the competitiveness of certain sellers’ offerings, and postal service changes could require certain sellers to utilize alternatives which could be more expensive or inconvenient, which could in turn decrease the number of transactions on our sites, thereby harming our business. We have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including some customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and could harm our business. There can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our sellers will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us or our sellers on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Our developer platforms, which are open to merchants and third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. We provide third-party developers with access to application programming interfaces, software development kits and other tools designed to allow them to produce applications for use, with a particular focus on mobile applications. There can be no assurance that merchants or third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. In addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions. It is possible that merchants and third-party developers who utilize our development platforms or tools could violate these regulatory restrictions and we may be held responsible for such violations, which could harm our business. The Distribution may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits and may adversely affect our business. We may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the Distribution and the Distribution may in fact adversely affect our business. As an independent, publicly traded company, we will be a smaller, less diversified company with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. Separating the businesses may also eliminate or reduce synergies or economies of scale that existed prior to the Distribution, which could harm our business. We could incur significant liability if the Distribution is determined to be a taxable transaction. We have received an opinion from outside tax counsel to the effect that the Distribution qualifies as a transaction that is described in Sections 355 and 368(a)(1)(D) of the Internal Revenue Code. The opinion relies on certain facts, assumptions, representations and undertakings from PayPal and us regarding the past and future conduct of the companies’ respective businesses and other matters. If any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are incorrect or not satisfied, our shareholders and we may not be able to rely on the opinion of tax counsel and could be subject to significant tax liabilities. Notwithstanding the opinion of tax counsel we have received, the IRS could determine on audit that the Distribution is taxable if it determines that any of these facts, assumptions, representations or undertakings are not correct or have been violated or if it disagrees with the conclusions in the opinion. If the Distribution is determined to be taxable for U.S. federal income tax purposes, our shareholders that are subject to U.S. federal income tax and we could incur significant U.S. federal income tax liabilities. We may be exposed to claims and liabilities as a result of the Distribution. We entered into a separation and distribution agreement and various other agreements with PayPal to govern the Distribution and the relationship of the two companies going forward. These agreements provide for specific indemnity and liability obligations and could lead to disputes between us and PayPal. The indemnity rights we have against PayPal under the agreements may not be sufficient to protect us. In addition, our indemnity obligations to PayPal may be significant and these risks could negatively affect our results of operations and financial condition.",0.99735790942,0.908892763731
22,1065088, EBAY , 2015-07-21 ,2015,2," You should carefully review the following discussion of the risks that may affect our business, results of operations and financial condition, as well as our consolidated financial statements and notes thereto and the other information appearing in this report, for important information regarding risks that affect us. Risk Factors That May Affect our Business, Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our operating and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history and may continue to fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, including as a result of the risks set forth in this “Risk Factors” section. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings (loss) accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual expenses as a percentage of net revenues reflected in our consolidated financial statements may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. The trading price of our common stock and debt securities could decline, perhaps substantially, as a result of the factors described in this paragraph. Substantial and increasingly intense competition worldwide in the ecommerce may harm our business. We currently and potentially compete with a wide variety of online and offline companies providing goods and services to consumers and merchants. The Internet and mobile networks provide new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods and services. We compete in two-sided markets, and must attract both buyers and sellers to use our platforms. Consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through us have more and more alternatives, and merchants have more channels to reach consumers. We expect competition to continue to intensify. Online and offline businesses increasingly are competing with each other and our competitors include a number of online and offline retailers with significant resources and well-established brands. Moreover, the barriers to entry into these channels can be low, and businesses easily can launch online sites or mobile platforms and applications at nominal cost by using commercially available software or partnering with any of a number of successful ecommerce companies. As we respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among sellers, which could reduce activity on our websites and harm its profitability. We face increased competitive pressure online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, ecommerce and mobile commerce has significantly increased, due to, among other factors, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. Also, certain platform businesses, such as Alibaba, Apple, Google and Facebook, many of whom are larger than us or have greater capitalization, have a dominant and secure position in other industries or certain significant markets, and offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants that we do not offer. If we are unable to change our products, offerings and services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce and mobile commerce marketplaces, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher expected service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), or compete effectively with and adapt to changes in larger platform businesses, our business will suffer. Competitors with other revenue sources may also be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote more resources to website, mobile platforms and applications and systems development than we can. Other competitors may offer or continue to offer faster and/or free shipping, delivery on Sunday, same-day delivery, favorable return policies or other transaction-related services which improve the user experience on their sites and which could be impractical or inefficient for our sellers to match. Competitors may be able to innovate faster and more efficiently, and new technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Some of our competitors control other products and services that are important to our success, including credit card interchange, Internet search, and mobile operating systems. Such competitors could manipulate pricing, availability, terms or operation of service related to their products and services in a manner that impacts our competitive offerings. For example, Google, which operates a shopping platform service, has from time to time made changes to its search algorithms that reduced the amount of search traffic directed to us from searches on Google. If we are unable to use or adapt to operational changes in such services, we may face higher costs for such services, or face integration or technological barriers, it could raise our costs and our business will suffer. Consumers who might use our sites to buy goods have a wide variety of alternatives, including traditional department, warehouse, boutique, discount and general merchandise stores (as well as the online and mobile operations of these traditional retailers), online retailers and their related mobile offerings, online and offline classified services and other shopping channels, such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the United States, these include Amazon.com (which recently opened an experimental brick-and-mortar store in New York City and continues to expand into new geographies and lines of business), Google, Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club, Buy.com (owned by Rakuten), Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC and Home Shopping Network, among others. In addition, consumers have a large number of online and offline channels focused on one or more of the categories of products offered on our site. Consumers also can turn to many companies that offer a variety of services that provide other channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites, such as craigslist, Oodle.com and a number of international websites operated by Schibsted ASA or Naspers Limited. Consumers also can turn to shopping-comparison sites, such as Google Shopping. In certain markets, our fixed-price listing and traditional auction-style listing formats increasingly are being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. Our classifieds websites offer classifieds listings in the United States and a variety of local international markets. In many markets in which they operate, including in the United States, these classifieds platforms compete for customers and for advertisers against more established online and offline classifieds platforms. Our online shopping comparison websites (Shopping.com) compete with sites such as Google Shopping, Buy.com, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, Buscapé in Latin America (owned by Naspers) and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on horizontal search engine sites, such as Google, Yahoo!, Naver and Baidu. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to help users find our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. Consumers may choose to search for products and services with a horizontal search engine or shopping comparison website, and such sites may also send users to other shopping destinations. Consumers and merchants who might use our sites to sell goods also have many alternatives, including general online ecommerce sites, such as Amazon and Alibaba, and more specialized sites, such as Etsy. Our international sites also compete for sellers with general and specialized online ecommerce sites. Sellers may also choose to sell their goods through other channels, such as classifieds sites. Consumers and merchants also can create and sell through their own sites, and may choose to purchase online advertising instead of using our services. In some countries, there are online sites that have larger customer bases and greater brand recognition, as well as competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce. We increasingly may compete with local competitors in developing countries that have unique advantages, such as a greater ability to operate under local regulatory authorities. In addition, certain manufacturers may limit or cease distribution of their products through online channels, such as our sites. Manufacturers may attempt to use contractual obligations or existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit ecommerce in certain categories of goods or services. Manufacturers may also attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance or minimum advertised price arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our websites or on the Internet generally, or at prices that would make us less attractive relative to other alternatives. The adoption by manufacturers of policies, or their use of laws or regulations, in each case discouraging or restricting the sales of goods or services over the Internet, could force our users to stop selling certain products on our websites, which could result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brands. The principal competitive factors for us include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage buyers and sellers and user engagement; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; brand recognition; community cohesion, interaction and size; website, mobile platform and application ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment, including customer preference for fast delivery and free shipping and returns; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Global and regional economic conditions could harm our business. Our operations and performance depend significantly on global and regional economic conditions. Adverse economic conditions and events (including volatility or distress in the equity and/or debt or credit markets) have in the past negatively impacted regional and global financial markets and will likely continue to do so from time to time in the future. Uncertainties relating to the ability of Greece to remain in the European Monetary Union may adversely impact the economy of the European Union, which is an important market in which we do business. These events and conditions could have a negative and adverse impact on companies and customers with which we do business. In addition, financial turmoil affecting the banking system or financial markets could cause additional consolidation of the financial services industry, or significant financial service institution failures, new or incremental tightening in the credit markets, low liquidity, and extreme volatility in fixed income, credit, currency, and equity markets. Adverse impacts to the companies and customers with which we do business, the banking system, or financial markets could have a material adverse effect on our business, including a reduction in the volume and prices of transactions on our commerce platforms. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. Because we generate the majority of our revenues outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our financial results are impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates, or foreign exchange rates. The results of operations of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars for financial reporting purposes. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in increased U.S. dollar denominated revenues and expenses. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, particularly the Euro, British pound, Korean won, Australian dollar, or Canadian dollar, our translation of foreign currency denominated revenues or expenses will result in lower U.S. dollar denominated net revenues and expenses. In addition to this translation effect, a strengthening U.S. dollar will typically adversely affect the volume of goods being sold by U.S. sellers to Europe, Australia and Canada more than it positively affects the volume of goods being sold by sellers in those geographies to buyers in the United States, thereby further negatively impacting our financial results. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to predict or eliminate the effects of this exposure. Fluctuations in foreign exchange rates could significantly impact our financial results, which may have a significant impact on the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our international operations are subject to increased risks, which could harm our business. Our international businesses, especially in the United Kingdom, Germany, Australia and Korea, and cross-border business from greater China, have generated a majority of our net revenues in recent years. In addition to uncertainty about our ability to generate revenues from our foreign operations and expand into international markets, there are risks inherent in doing business internationally, including: expenses associated with localizing our products and services and customer data, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; trade barriers and changes in trade regulations; difficulties in developing, staffing, and simultaneously managing a large number of varying foreign operations as a result of distance, language, and cultural differences; stringent local labor laws and regulations; credit risk and higher levels of payment fraud; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions or extreme fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates for a particular currency; political or social unrest, economic instability, repression, or human rights issues; geopolitical events, including natural disasters, public health issues, acts of war, and terrorism; import or export regulations; compliance with U.S. laws such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and foreign laws prohibiting corrupt payments to government officials, as well as U.S. and foreign laws designed to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities; antitrust and competition regulations; potentially adverse tax developments and consequences; economic uncertainties relating to sovereign and other debt; different, uncertain, or more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy, and other laws; risks related to other government regulation or required compliance with local laws; national or regional differences in macroeconomic growth rates; local licensing and reporting obligations; and increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable. Violations of the complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations may result in fines, criminal actions, or sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees; prohibitions on the conduct of our business; and damage to our reputation. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to promote compliance with these laws, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. These risks inherent in our international operations and expansion increase our costs of doing business internationally and could harm our business. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade or make such trade more difficult could harm our business. Cross-border trade is an important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border transactions generally provide higher revenues and gross margins than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. Cross-border trade also represents our primary (or in some cases, only) presence in certain important markets, such as Brazil/Latin America, China, and various other countries. In addition, our cross-border trade is also subject to, and may be impacted by, foreign exchange rate fluctuations. The interpretation and application of specific national or regional laws, such as those related to intellectual property rights of authentic products, selective distribution networks, and sellers in other countries listing items on the Internet, and the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the buyer, the seller, and/or the location of the item being sold) are often extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. The interpretation and/or application of such laws could impose restrictions on, or increase the costs of, purchasing, selling, shipping, or returning goods across national borders. The shipping of goods across national borders is often more expensive and complicated than domestic shipping. Customs and duty procedures and reviews, including duty-free thresholds in various key markets, the interaction of national postal systems, and security related governmental processes at international borders, may increase costs, discourage cross-border purchases, delay transit and create shipping uncertainties. Any factors that increase the costs of cross-border trade or restrict, delay, or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical would lower our revenues and profits and could harm our business. Our business may be adversely affected by geopolitical events, natural disasters, seasonal factors and other factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites or mobile platforms and applications, including increased usage of other websites. Our users may spend less time on our websites and our applications for mobile devices as a result of a variety of diversions, including: geopolitical events, such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity; natural disasters; power shortages or outages, major public health issues, including pandemics; social networking or other entertainment websites or mobile applications; significant local, national or global events capturing the attention of a large part of the population; and seasonal fluctuations due to a variety of factors. If any of these, or any other factors, divert our users from using of our websites or mobile applications, our business could be materially adversely affected. The separation may not achieve some or all of the anticipated benefits and may adversely affect our business. We may not realize some or all of the anticipated benefits from the separation and the separation may in fact adversely affect our business. As independent, publicly traded companies, eBay and PayPal will be smaller, less diversified companies with a narrower business focus and may be more vulnerable to changing market conditions, which could materially and adversely affect their respective businesses, financial condition and results of operations. Separating the businesses may also eliminate or reduce synergies that existed prior to the separation, which could harm each business. There can be no assurance that the combined value of the common stock of the two publicly-traded companies following the completion of the proposed separation will be equal to or greater than what the value of our common stock would have been had the proposed separation not occurred. Our success depends to a large degree on our ability to successfully address the rapidly evolving market for transactions on mobile devices. Mobile devices are increasingly used for ecommerce transactions. A significant and growing portion of our users access our platforms through mobile devices. We may lose users if we are not able to continue to meet our users’ mobile and multi-screen experience expectations. he variety of technical and other configurations across different mobile devices and platforms increases the challenges associated with this environment. In addition, a number of other companies with significant resources and a number of innovative startups have introduced products and services focusing on mobile markets. Our ability to successfully address the challenges posed by the rapidly evolving market for mobile transactions is crucial to our continued success, and any failure to continuously increase the volume of mobile transactions effected through our platforms could harm our business. If we cannot keep pace with rapid technological developments to provide new and innovative programs, products and services, the use of our products and our revenues could decline. Rapid, significant technological changes continue to confront the industries in which we operate. We cannot predict the effect of technological changes on our business. In addition to our own initiatives and innovations, we rely in part on third parties, including some of our competitors, for the development of and access to new technologies. We expect that new services and technologies applicable to the industries in which we operate will continue to emerge. These new services and technologies may be superior to, or render obsolete, the technologies we currently use in our products and services. Incorporating new technologies into our products and services may require substantial expenditures and take considerable time, and ultimately may not be successful. In addition, our ability to adopt new services and develop new technologies may be inhibited by industry-wide standards, new laws and regulations, resistance to change from clients or merchants, or third parties’ intellectual property rights. Our success will depend on our ability to develop new technologies and adapt to technological changes and evolving industry standards. Our business is subject to extensive government regulation and oversight. We are subject to laws and regulations affecting our domestic and international operations in a number of areas, including consumer protection, data privacy requirements, intellectual property ownership and infringement, prohibited items and stolen goods, resale of event tickets, tax, anti-competition, export requirements, anti-corruption, labor, advertising, digital content, real estate, billing, ecommerce, promotions, quality of services, telecommunications, mobile communications and media, environmental, and health and safety regulations, as well as laws and regulations intended to combat money laundering and the financing of terrorist activities. Compliance with these laws, regulations, and similar requirements may be onerous and expensive, and variances and inconsistencies from jurisdiction to jurisdiction may further increase the cost of compliance and doing business. Any such costs, which may rise in the future as a result of changes in these laws and regulations or in their interpretation, could individually or in the aggregate make our products and services less attractive to our customers, delay the introduction of new products or services in one or more regions, or cause us to change or limit our business practices. We have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with applicable laws and regulations, but there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate such laws and regulations or our policies and procedures. Regulation in the areas of privacy and protection of user data could harm our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security, and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users around the world. Much of the personal information that we collect, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple laws. User data protection laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among ourselves, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. These laws continue to develop in ways we cannot predict and that may harm our business. Regulatory scrutiny of privacy, user data protection, use of data and data collection is increasing on a global basis. We are subject to a number of privacy and similar laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate and these laws and regulations will likely continue to evolve over time, both through regulatory and legislative action and judicial decisions. Some of these laws impose requirements that are inconsistent with one another, yet regulators may claim that both apply. Complying with these varying national requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business and violations of privacy-related laws can result in significant penalties. In addition, compliance with these laws may restrict our ability to provide services to our customers that they may find to be valuable. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to our practices under communications-based laws could expose us to significant damage awards, fines and other penalties that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. In particular, because of the enormous number of texts, emails and other communications we send to our users, communications laws that provide a specified monetary damage award or fine for each violation (such as those described below) could result in particularly large awards or fines. For example, the Federal Communications Commission amended certain of its regulations under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, or TCPA, in 2012 and 2013 in a manner that could increase our exposure to liability for certain types of telephonic communication with customers, including but not limited to text messages to mobile phones. Under the TCPA, plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. We are regularly subject to class-action lawsuits, as well as individual lawsuits, containing allegations that our businesses violated the TCPA. These lawsuits, and other private lawsuits not currently alleged as class actions, seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. Given the enormous number of communications we send to our users, a determination that there have been violations of the TCPA or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. We post on our websites our privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action privacy litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Data collection, privacy and security have become the subject of increasing public concern. If Internet and mobile users were to reduce their use of our websites, mobile platforms, products, and services as a result of these concerns, our business could be harmed. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Other laws and regulations could harm our business. It is not always clear how laws and regulations governing matters relevant to our business, such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks, and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, and obscenity apply to our businesses. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, mobile, and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Many of these laws, including some of those that do reference the Internet are subject to interpretation by the courts on an ongoing basis and the resulting uncertainty in the scope and application of these laws and regulations increases the risk that we will be subject to private claims and governmental actions alleging violations of those laws and regulations. As our activities, the products and services we offer, and our geographical scope continue to expand, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to additional requirements (including licensure) or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions. Financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our businesses. Our success and increased visibility have driven some existing businesses that perceive us to be a threat to their businesses to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators. These businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. These established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. Any changes to the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Numerous U.S. states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted to impose such regulations upon us or our users, and others may attempt to do so in the future. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing and we could be required to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues, such as forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items or restrict certain listing formats in some locations. We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we are increasingly becoming obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, we were found liable in France, under French law, for transactions on some of our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers or sellers. Laws regulating Internet, mobile and ecommerce technologies outside of the United States are generally less favorable to us than those in the United States. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on us or our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us (e.g., in cross-border trade). Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. We are regularly subject to general litigation, regulatory disputes, and government inquiries. We are regularly subject to claims, lawsuits (including class actions and individual lawsuits), government investigations, and other proceedings involving competition and antitrust, intellectual property, privacy, consumer protection, accessibility claims, securities, tax, labor and employment, commercial disputes, content generated by our users, services and other matters. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our company has grown larger, our businesses have expanded in scope and geographic reach, and our products and services have increased in complexity. The outcome and impact of such claims, lawsuits, government investigations, and proceedings cannot be predicted with certainty. Regardless of the outcome, such investigations and proceedings can have an adverse impact on us because of legal costs, diversion of management resources, and other factors. Determining reserves for our pending litigation is a complex, fact-intensive process that is subject to judgment calls. It is possible that a resolution of one or more such proceedings could require us to make substantial payments to satisfy judgments, fines or penalties or to settle claims or proceedings, any of which could harm our business. These proceedings could also result in reputational harm, criminal sanctions, consent decrees, or orders preventing us from offering certain products, or services, or requiring a change in our business practices in costly ways, or requiring development of non-infringing or otherwise altered products or technologies. Any of these consequences could harm our business. We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. We are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under U.S. and foreign laws and regulations, including competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti- competitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the United States, individual states, the European Commission or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. An increasing number of governments are regulating competition law activities, including increased scrutiny in large markets such as China. Our business partnerships or agreements or arrangements with customers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Some regulators, particularly those outside of the United States, may perceive our business to be used so broadly that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. Certain competition authorities have conducted market studies of our industries. Such claims and investigations, even if without foundation, may be very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort and could result in significant judgments against us or require us to change our business practices. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties’ patents. We are a defendant in a number of patent suits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. We expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims because, among other reasons: our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity; we continue to expand into new businesses, including through acquisitions; and the universe of patent owners who may claim that we, any of the companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents, and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners, continues to increase. Such claims may be brought directly against us and/or against our customers whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or we choose to do so as a business matter. We believe that an increasing number of these claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. In addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries. Patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time-consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, make substantial payments to satisfy adverse judgments or settle claims or proceedings, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in interest rates. Investments in both fixed-rate and floating-rate interest-earning instruments carry varying degrees of interest rate risk. The fair market value of our fixed-rate investment securities may be adversely impacted due to a rise in interest rates. In general, fixed-rate securities with longer maturities are subject to greater interest-rate risk than those with shorter maturities. While floating rate securities generally are subject to less interest-rate risk than fixed-rate securities, floating-rate securities may produce less income than expected if interest rates decrease and may also suffer a decline in market value if interest rates increase. Due in part to these factors, our investment income may decline or we may suffer losses in principal if securities are sold that have declined in market value due to changes in interest rates. In addition, relatively low interest rates limit our investment income. Fluctuations in interest rates that increase the cost of our current or future indebtedness, cause the market value of our assets to decline or reduce our investment income could adversely affect our financial results. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks, including: Some jurisdictions, in particular jurisdictions outside the United States, prohibit the resale of event tickets (anti-scalping laws) at prices above the face value of the tickets or at all, or highly regulate the resale of tickets, and new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions could limit or inhibit our ability to operate, or our users’ ability to continue to use, our tickets business.   Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations. In many jurisdictions, our tickets business depends on commercial partnerships with event organizers or licensed ticket vendors, which we must develop and maintain on acceptable terms for our tickets business to be successful. Our tickets business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. A portion of the tickets inventory sold by sellers on the StubHub website is processed by StubHub in digital form. Systems failures, security breaches, theft or other disruptions that result in the loss of such sellers’ tickets inventory, could result in significant costs and a loss of consumer confidence in our tickets business. Lawsuits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers, and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such lawsuits could result in significant costs and require us to change our business practices in ways that negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies, event organizers, ticket brokers, and online and offline ticket resellers. Some ticketing service companies, event organizers, and professional sports teams have begun to issue event tickets through various forms of electronic ticketing systems that are designed to restrict or prohibit the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of such event tickets either to favor their own resale affiliates or to discourage resale or restrict resale of season tickets to a preferred, designated website. Ticketing service companies have also begun to use market-based pricing strategies or dynamic pricing to charge much higher prices, and impose additional restrictions on transferability, for premium tickets. Some sports teams have threatened to revoke the privileges of season ticket owners if they resell their tickets through a platform that is not affiliated with, or approved by, such sports teams. In March 2015, StubHub filed suit against Ticketmaster and the Golden State Warriors, alleging antitrust and various state law violations arising out of the defendants’ restrictive ticketing practices, which include prohibiting the resale of Warriors tickets on StubHub or any other non-Ticketmaster secondary exchange. The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, may harm our business. The listing or sale by our users of unlawful, counterfeit or stolen goods or unlawful services, or sale of goods or services in an unlawful manner, has resulted and may continue to result in allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities against us (including the employees and directors of our various entities) involving activities carried out by users through our services. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet violations of certain laws, including laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, laws restricting or prohibiting the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of digital goods (e.g., event tickets, books, music and software), the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, customs laws, distance selling laws, anti-scalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, and the sale of items outside of the United States that are regulated by U.S. export controls. For example: In Turkey, local prosecutors and courts are investigating our liability for allegedly illegal actions by users of our Turkish Marketplaces business (GittiGidiyor). In accordance with local law and custom, they have indicted one or more members of the board of directors of our local Turkish subsidiary. We intend to defend vigorously against any such actions and a growing number of these cases have been dismissed by the relevant courts. In August 2012, we were informed that U.S. listings of footwear with religious imagery were visible on our local Indian site and we immediately removed these listings. In September 2012, a criminal case was registered against us in India in regard to these listings, and we are challenging the prosecution of this case. In addition, allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights, including but not limited to counterfeit items, have resulted in threatened and actual litigation from time to time by rights owners, including the following luxury brand owners: Tiffany & Co. in the United States; Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany; Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France; and L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie, and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. Plaintiffs in these and similar suits seek, among other remedies, injunctive relief and damages. Statutory damages for copyright or trademark violations could range up to $150,000 per copyright violation and $2,000,000 per trademark violation in the United States, and may be even higher in other jurisdictions. In the past, we have paid substantial amounts in connection with resolving certain trademark and copyright suits. These and similar suits may also force us to modify our business practices in a manner that increases costs, lowers revenue, makes our websites and mobile platforms less convenient to customers, and requires us to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings in order to combat these practices. In addition, we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal or counterfeit goods, which could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names, and make users reluctant to use our products and services. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our services. Online services companies may be subject to claims relating to information disseminated through their services, including claims alleging defamation, libel, breach of contract, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, among other things. The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information disseminated through their services are subject to frequent challenges both in the United States and foreign jurisdictions. Any liabilities incurred as a result of these matters could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the United States where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled, may increase. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which could harm our business. Changes to our programs to protect buyers and sellers could increase our costs and loss rate. Our eBay buyer protection programs represent the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased or have received an item different from what was described. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is slowly beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. litigation involving liability for any such third-party actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or third parties may allege that we are infringing their intellectual property rights. We believe the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks, patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets, is critical to our success. We seek to protect our intellectual property rights by relying on applicable laws and regulations in the United States and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services, including confidentiality and invention assignment agreements entered into with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our intellectual property or deter independent development of equivalent or superior intellectual property rights by others. Trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every jurisdiction. Also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. Any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could materially harm our business. As the number of products in the software industry increases and the functionality of these products further overlap, and as we acquire technology through acquisitions or licenses, we may become increasingly subject to infringement claims, including patent, copyright, and trademark infringement claims. Litigation may be necessary to determine the validity and scope of the patent and other intellectual property rights of others. The ultimate outcome of any allegation is uncertain and, regardless of the outcome, any such claim, with or without merit, may be time-consuming, result in costly litigation, divert management’s time and attention from our business, require us to stop selling, delay shipping, or redesign our products, or require us to pay substantial amounts to satisfy judgments or settle claims or lawsuits or to pay substantial royalty or licensing fees, or to satisfy indemnification obligations that we have with some of our customers. Our failure to obtain necessary license or other rights, or litigation or claims arising out of intellectual property matters, may harm our business. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent activities on our websites would increase our loss rate and harm our business, and could severely diminish merchant and consumer confidence in and use of our services. We face risks with respect to fraudulent activities on its websites and periodically receive complaints from buyers and sellers who may not have received the goods that they had contracted to purchase or payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While we can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, we do not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through its buyer protection program, which in the United States we refer as the eBay Money Back Guarantee. Although we have implemented measures to detect and reduce the occurrence of fraudulent activities, combat bad buyer experiences and increase buyer satisfaction, including evaluating sellers on the basis of their transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity, there can be no assurance that these measures will be effective in combating fraudulent transactions or improving overall satisfaction among sellers, buyers, and other participants. Additional measures to address fraud could negatively affect the attractiveness of our services to buyers or sellers, resulting in a reduction in the ability to attract new users or retain current users, damage to our reputation, or a diminution in the value of our brand names. We have substantial indebtedness, and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our business to service our indebtedness. Failure to comply with the terms of our indebtedness could result in the acceleration of our indebtedness, which could have an adverse effect on our cash flow and liquidity. We have a substantial amount of outstanding indebtedness and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility or through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, including, without limitation, any of the following: requiring the dedication of a significant portion of our cash flow from operations to service our indebtedness, thereby reducing the amount of cash flow available for other purposes, including capital expenditures and acquisitions; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to downturns in our business, to competitive pressures, and to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions; adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies will likely increase our borrowing costs; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or other general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the United States at substantial tax cost; seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; or reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. Our revolving credit facility and the indenture pursuant to which certain of our outstanding debt securities were issued contain, and any debt instruments we enter into in the future may contain, financial and other covenants that restrict or could restrict, among other things, our business and operations. If we fail to pay amounts due under, or breach any of the covenants in, a debt instrument, then the lenders would typically have the right to demand immediate repayment of all borrowings thereunder (subject in certain cases to grace or cure period). Moreover, any such acceleration and required repayment of or default in respect of any of our indebtedness could, in turn, constitute an event of default under other debt instruments, thereby resulting in the acceleration and required repayment of that other indebtedness. Any of these events could materially adversely affect our liquidity and financial condition. A downgrade in our credit ratings could materially adversely affect our business. The credit ratings assigned to our debt securities could change based upon, among other things, our results of operations and financial condition. These ratings are subject to ongoing evaluation by credit rating agencies, and there can be no assurance that any rating will not be changed or withdrawn by a rating agency in the future. Moreover, these credit ratings are not recommendations to buy, sell or hold any of our debt securities. Actual or anticipated changes or downgrades in our credit ratings, including any announcement that our ratings are under review for a downgrade or have been assigned a negative outlook, would likely increase our borrowing costs, which could in turn have a material adverse effect on our financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, and could harm our business. As of January 1, 2014, our long-term debt and short-term funding were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated A, short-term rated A-1, with a stable outlook), Moody's Investor Service (long-term rated A2, short-term rated P-1, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated A, short-term rated F-1, with a stable outlook). Following the September 2014 announcement of our planned separation of our PayPal business, Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC and Moody's Investor Service placed our long-term debt and short-term funding ratings under review with negative implications, while Fitch Ratings, Inc. downgraded our long-term debt from A to A- and short-term funding rating from F-1 to F-2, retaining our investment grade status, and placed the long-term rating under review with negative implications. As of April 1, 2015, Fitch Ratings, Inc. affirmed the short-term funding rating at F-2. We did not experience any material operational, funding, or liquidity impacts from this rating downgrade. As of July 20, 2015, we were rated investment grade by Standard and Poor's Financial Services, LLC (long-term rated BBB+, short-term rated A-2, with a stable outlook), Moody's Investor Service (long-term rated Baa1, short-term rated P-2, with a stable outlook), and Fitch Ratings, Inc. (long-term rated BBB, short-term rated F-2, with a stable outlook). We disclose these ratings to enhance the understanding of our sources of liquidity and the effects of our ratings on our costs of funds. Our borrowing costs depend, in part, on our credit ratings and the actions already taken by these credit rating agencies as described above will likely increase, and any further downgrades would likely increase, our borrowing costs. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, governments are increasingly looking for ways to increase revenues, which has resulted in discussions about tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenues, including through indirect taxes. There are many transactions that occur during the ordinary course of business for which the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. However, some jurisdictions have implemented, or may implement, laws that require out-of-state sellers of tangible personal property to collect and remit taxes. In particular, the Streamlined Sales Tax Project (an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state and local governments to pursue federal legislation that would require collection and remittance of sales tax by out-of-state sellers) could allow states that meet certain simplification and other criteria to require out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. The adoption of such legislation could result in a use tax collection responsibility for certain of our sellers. This collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements would make selling on our websites and mobile platforms less attractive for small business retailers and would harm our business, and the proliferation of state legislation to expand sales and use tax collection on Internet sales could adversely affect some of our sellers and indirectly harm our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local levels that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. While the U.S. federal government’s moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce has been extended through October 2015, this moratorium does not prohibit federal, state or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. From time to time, some taxing authorities in the United States have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes imposed on our services. These notifications have not resulted in any significant tax liabilities to date, but there is a risk that some jurisdiction may be successful in the future, which would harm our business. Similar issues exist outside of the United States, where the application of VAT or other indirect taxes on ecommerce providers is complex and evolving. While we attempt to comply in those jurisdictions where it is clear that a tax is due, some of our subsidiaries have, from time to time, received claims relating to the applicability of indirect taxes to our fees. We have been paying VAT on fees charged to certain of our users in the European Union based on the service provider’s location. On January 1, 2015, changes to the rules determining the place of supply (and thus the country of taxation) for all European Union based providers of electronically supplied services were implemented that require that we pay VAT based on the residence or normal place of business of our customers. These changes may result in our paying a higher rate of VAT on such fees. Additionally, we pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. In certain jurisdictions, we collect and remit indirect taxes on our fees and pay taxes on our purchases of goods and services. However, tax authorities may raise questions about our calculation, reporting and collection of taxes and may ask us to remit additional taxes, as well as the proper calculation of such taxes. Should any new taxes become applicable or if the taxes we pay are found to be deficient, our business could be harmed. A taxing authority may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Any failure by us to meet these requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. Taxing authorities may also seek to impose tax collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Some jurisdictions could assert that we are responsible for tax on the underlying goods or services sold on our sites. Imposition of a record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Tax authorities may also require us to help ensure compliance by our users by promulgating legislation regulating professional sellers, including tax reporting and collection requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our tax structure. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could harm our business, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient. In addition, our future income taxes could be adversely affected by earnings being lower than anticipated (or by the incurrence of losses) in jurisdictions that have lower statutory tax rates and higher than anticipated in jurisdictions that have higher statutory tax rates, by changes in the valuation of our deferred tax assets and liabilities, as a result of gains on our foreign exchange risk management program, or changes in tax laws, regulations, or accounting principles, as well as certain discrete items. In light of continuing fiscal challenges in certain U.S. states and in many countries in Europe, various levels of government are increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue, including corporate income taxes. For example, the economic downturn reduced tax revenues for United States federal and state governments, and a number of proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities have been implemented or are being considered at various levels of government. These include a number of proposals to modify the U.S. federal income tax laws applicable to companies, like ours, operating in multiple U.S. and foreign jurisdictions which, if enacted, could materially increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S. states have attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state, and taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions may take similar actions. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas to increase the amount of taxable income or loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Similarly, in Europe, and elsewhere in the world, there are various tax reform efforts underway designed to ensure that corporate entities are taxed on a larger percentage of their earnings. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of these efforts. If more taxing authorities are successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that do not have a physical presence in their respective jurisdictions, this could increase our effective tax rate. We may be subject to sales reporting and record-keeping obligations. One or more states, the U.S. federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose reporting or record-keeping obligations on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been contemplated by several states and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if one of our companies was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which it operates. Certain of our companies are required to report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) on customers subject to U.S. income tax who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a calendar year. As a result, we are required to request tax identification numbers from certain payees, track payments by tax identification number and, under certain conditions, withhold a portion of payments and forward such withholding to the IRS. We have modified our systems to meet these requirements and expect increased operational costs and changes to our user experience in connection with complying with these reporting obligations. Any failure by us to meet these requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users’ personal financial information. In addition, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. An increasing number of websites, including those owned by several other large Internet and offline companies, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their websites or infrastructure. The techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable, or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time, and often are not recognized until launched against a target. Certain efforts may be state sponsored and supported by significant financial and technological resources and therefore may be even more difficult to detect. As a result, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities, fraud, trickery or other means of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users’ personal information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation. In addition, our users have been and likely will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate user names, passwords, payment card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers. Our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyberattacks or security incidents and third parties may be able to access our users’ proprietary information and payment card data that are stored on or accessible through our systems. Any security breach at a company providing services to us or our users could have similar effects. In May 2014, we publicly announced that criminals were able to penetrate and steal certain data, including user names, encrypted user passwords and other non-financial user data. Upon making this announcement, we required all buyers and sellers on our platform to reset their passwords in order to log into their account. The breach and subsequent password reset have negatively impacted the business. In July 2014, a putative class action lawsuit was filed against us for alleged violations and harm resulting from the breach. The lawsuit was recently dismissed with leave to amend. In addition, we have received requests for information and are subject to investigations regarding this incident from numerous regulatory and other government agencies across the world. We may also need to expend significant additional resources to protect against security breaches or to redress problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult and costly as we expand the number of markets where we operate. Additionally, our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches and we may not be able to fully collect, if at all, under these insurance policies Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. Our systems may experience service interruptions or degradation because of hardware and software defects or malfunctions, computer denial-of-service and other cyberattacks, human error, earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, natural disasters, power losses, disruptions in telecommunications services, fraud, military or political conflicts, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, or other events. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage and intentional acts of vandalism. Some of our systems are not fully redundant and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. In addition, as a provider of payments solutions, we are subject to increased scrutiny by regulators that may require specific business continuity and disaster recovery plans and more rigorous testing of such plans. This increased scrutiny may be costly and time consuming and may divert our resources from other business priorities.We have experienced and will likely continue to experience system failures, denial of service attacks and other events or conditions from time to time that interrupt the availability or reduce the speed or functionality of our websites and mobile applications. These events have resulted and likely will result in loss of revenue. A prolonged interruption in the availability or reduction in the speed or other functionality of our websites and mobile applications could materially harm our business. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. In addition, agreements between our Enterprise business and some of its clients contain commitments regarding availability. If our Enterprise business is unable to meet these commitments, its relationship with its clients could be damaged and may trigger a client’s right to terminate their contract with our Enterprise business and/or financial penalty provisions payable by our Enterprise business. Moreover, to the extent that any system failure or similar event results in damages to our customers or their businesses, these customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses and those claims, even if unsuccessful, would likely be time-consuming and costly for us to address. We also rely on facilities, components and services supplied by third parties and our business may be materially adversely affected to the extent these components or services do not meet our expectations or these third parties cease to provide the services or facilities. In particular, a decision by any of our third party hosting providers to close a facility that we use could cause system interruptions and delays, result in loss of critical data and cause lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. We also rely on facilities, components and services supplied by third parties and our business may be materially adversely affected to the extent these components or services do not meet our expectations or these third parties cease to provide the services or facilities. In particular, a decision by any of our third party hosting providers to close a facility that we use could cause system interruptions and delays, result in loss of critical data and cause lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of systems failures and similar events. Acquisitions, joint ventures, and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties and could harm our business. We have acquired a significant number of businesses of varying size and scope, technologies, services, and products. We also expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions, and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products, and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. In that regard, we recently agreed to sell our Enterprise business. This sale is subject to customary closing conditions, and if these conditions are not satisfied or waived, the transaction could be delayed or not take place. These transactions, and in particular the sale of our Enterprise business, may involve significant challenges and risks, including: the potential loss of key customers, merchants, vendors and other key business partners of the companies we acquire, or dispose of, following and continuing after announcement of our transaction plans; declining employee morale and retention issues affecting employees of companies that we acquire or dispose of, which may result from changes in compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the acquired or disposed business; difficulty making new and strategic hires of new employees; diversion of management time and a shift of focus from operating the businesses to the transaction, and in the case of an acquisition, integration and administration; the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise as a result; the need to implement or improve controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies or whose controls, procedures and policies did not meet applicable legal and other standards; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets; derivative lawsuits resulting from the acquisition; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; the potential loss of key employees following the transaction; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure; and our dependence on the acquired business’ accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes and the risk that errors or irregularities in those systems, controls and processes will lead to errors in our consolidated financial statements or make it more difficult to manage the acquired business. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions and any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. In addition, it may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits of these transactions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Any acquisitions or dispositions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities, and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. We have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and/or lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture may have business interests, strategies, or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Our strategic investments may also expose us to additional risks. Any circumstances, which may be out of our control, that adversely affect the value of our investments, or cost resulting from regulatory action or lawsuits in connection with our investments, could harm our business or negatively impact our financial results. Our success largely depends on key personnel. Because competition for our key employees is intense, we may not be able to attract, retain, and develop the highly skilled employees we need to support our business. The loss of senior management or other key personnel could harm our business. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including key engineering and product development personnel, and our ability to attract, retain, and motivate key personnel. Competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley where our corporate headquarters are located, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment and fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to attract, retain, and motivate employees. In addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract highly qualified senior management and other key personnel, could harm our business. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our users could harm our business. A number of third parties provide services to us or to our users. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our users list items and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes, lockouts, or work stoppages), or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our users could harm our business. Price increases by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that provide services to us and our users and clients could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our sellers to complete transactions or for us to timely fulfill and ship products sold on the websites operated by Enterprise clients, thereby harming our business. Some third parties who provide services to us may have or gain market power and be able to increase their prices to us without competitive constraint. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service, which is facing ongoing fiscal challenges, has instituted postal rate increases and announced that it is considering closing thousands of local post offices and ending Saturday mail delivery. While we continue to work with global carriers to offer our sellers a variety of shipping options and to enhance their shipping experience, postal rate increases may reduce the competitiveness of certain sellers’ offerings, and postal service changes could require certain sellers to utilize alternatives which could be more expensive or inconvenient, which could in turn decrease the number of transactions on our sites, thereby harming our business. We have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including some customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and could harm our business. There can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to us or our users will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us or our users on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. Our developer platforms, which are open to merchants and third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. We provide third-party developers with access to application programming interfaces, software development kits and other tools designed to allow them to produce applications for use, with a particular focus on mobile applications. There can be no assurance that merchants or third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. In addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions. It is possible that merchants and third-party developers who utilize our development platforms or tools could violate these regulatory restrictions and we may be held responsible for such violations, which could harm our business. Our Enterprise business is subject to substantial competition. Our Enterprise business provides a modular, integrated portfolio of commerce technology solutions and services, omnichannel operations solutions and commerce marketing solutions that enable companies to operate and integrate their ecommerce offering and their omnichannel business, including physical stores, in order to sell to consumers across the entire sales journey, from awareness to conversion, delivery and retention. The market for such products and services is continuously evolving and intensely competitive. Many of our Enterprise business’s prospective clients may choose to manage all or some aspects of an omnichannel business with internal resources. As a result, the Enterprise business often competes with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal information technology staffs, marketing departments, merchandising groups and other internal corporate constituencies, as well as with external technology and interactive marketing service providers that supply one or more components that allow prospective clients to develop and operate their omnichannel business in-house. This group of providers may include the prospective client itself and companies that offer one or more of the following: web platforms; customer care/call center services; fulfillment and logistics; systems integration services and technology products and services; email management and data aggregation; online marketing and design services; and other interactive marketing services. Low barriers to entry in the interactive marketing industry could also increase the number of competitors we may face. The Enterprise business has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing, and other resources. Those competitors may be able to secure components of their technology and services on more favorable terms and devote more resources to technology development and marketing than the Enterprise business. In addition, to the extent that we expand our Enterprise business internationally, it will face increased competition from global and local companies, which may have a greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. Our Enterprise business exposes us to additional risks Our Enterprise business faces its own risks and challenges. Competition for Enterprise’s existing and potential clients is intense, and our Enterprise business may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. For example, a change in the management of an Enterprise client could adversely affect our relationship with that client. In addition, many of Enterprise’s client contracts contain service level commitments. If our Enterprise business is unable to meet these commitments, its relationships with its clients could be damaged, and client rights to terminate their contracts with our Enterprise business and/or financial penalty provisions payable by our Enterprise business may be triggered. These contracts contain provisions under which our Enterprise business has agreed to indemnify Enterprise clients against certain claims by third parties regarding our products and services. If any existing Enterprise clients (in particular, the large merchants and brands that our Enterprise business serves) were to exit the business we provide services to, be acquired, declare bankruptcy, suffer other financial difficulties, make indemnification claims against us, fail to pay amounts owed to our Enterprise business and/or terminate or modify their relationships with our Enterprise business in an unfavorable manner, our Enterprise business could be adversely affected. A portion of Enterprise’s net transaction revenue is derived from the value of ecommerce transactions that flow through its suite of commerce technologies. Accordingly, growth in Enterprise’s net transaction revenue depends upon the continued growth of the online businesses of its clients. Our Enterprise business may be substantially impacted by any adverse conditions in the offline businesses of an Enterprise client that negatively impact that client’s online businesses. Any impairment of the offline business of Enterprise clients, whether due to financial difficulties, impairment of client brands, reduction in marketing efforts, reduction in the number of client retail stores or otherwise, could negatively affect consumer traffic and sales through Enterprise clients’ websites, which would result in lower revenues generated by our Enterprise business. Our Enterprise business also relies on its clients’ ability to accurately forecast product demand and select and buy the inventory for their corresponding online businesses. Under such arrangements, the client establishes product prices and pays our Enterprise business fees based either on a fixed or variable percentage of revenues, or on the activity performed. As a result, if Enterprise clients fail to accurately forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, the client’s ecommerce business (and, in turn, our Enterprise fees) could be adversely affected. Our Enterprise business holds some inventory on behalf of its clients. If our Enterprise business is unable to effectively manage and handle this inventory, this may result in unexpected costs that could adversely affect our Enterprise business. Any theft of such inventory, or damage or interruption to such inventory, including as a result of earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fire, power loss, labor disputes, terrorist attacks and similar events and disruptions, could result in losses related to such inventory and disruptions to the businesses of Enterprise clients, which could in turn adversely affect our Enterprise business. While we have insurance coverage to protect against such losses, it may be inadequate to cover all losses, and we may not be able to fully collect, if at all, under these insurance policies. Our Enterprise business processes personal information on behalf of its clients. The personal information on customers of certain websites operated by Enterprise clients may be regulated under applicable privacy laws and regulations. In some cases, Enterprise’s use or disclosure of that information may be restricted by contractual terms, laws and regulations, and any misuse or unpermitted disclosure of that information could negatively impact our Enterprise business and its clients. Our Enterprise business is in the process of enhancing its marketing solutions platform and plans to migrate existing clients to its new marketing solutions platform. Our Enterprise business could be negatively impacted if this project is delayed, the functionality of the new marketing solutions platform is not accepted by existing or new clients, or the new marketing solutions platform does not operate as expected. Our Enterprise business utilizes email marketing to drive consumer traffic to the websites operated by some of its clients. Email could become a less effective means of communicating with and marketing to consumers for a variety of reasons, including: problems with technology that make Enterprise’s email communications more difficult to deliver and for consumers to read (e.g., the inability of some mobile devices to adequately display email); consumers may disregard marketing emails due to the large volume of such emails they receive; the inability of filters to effectively screen for unwanted emails, resulting in increased levels of junk mail, or “SPAM,” which may overwhelm consumers’ email accounts; increased use of social networking sites, which may result in decreased use of email as a primary means of communication; continued security concerns regarding Internet usage in general from viruses, worms or similar problems; and increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by Internet service providers that make it more difficult or costly to utilize email for marketing communications. If any of our Enterprise entities were to end up on SPAM lists or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited emails, their ability to contact customers through email could be significantly restricted. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the demand for Enterprise email marketing solutions could decrease and our Enterprise business could be harmed. Our Enterprise business also utilizes mobile messaging as a means of communicating with consumers, which carries risks similar to those described above for email marketing. Our Enterprise business has relationships with search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers, online advertising networks, and other websites to provide content, advertising banners, and other links to its clients’ ecommerce businesses. Our Enterprise business relies on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to its clients’ ecommerce businesses. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. eBay and our Enterprise businesses are party to certain acquisition agreements relating to entities purchased by GSI Commerce prior to our acquisition of GSI Commerce. These agreements could subject us to liabilities, which could harm our Enterprise business.",0.978598677772,0.512852508111
23,1065088, EBAY , 2014-07-18 ,2014,2," Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our operating and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock and debt securities. Our operating and financial results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history. Our operating and financial results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating and financial results include risks described elsewhere in this section and the following: our ability to manage the rapid shift from ecommerce and online payments to mobile and multi-channel commerce and payments; our ability to improve the quality of the user experience on our websites and through mobile devices (including our customer support in the event of a problem) to keep pace with the improved quality of the user experience generally offered by competitive platforms; our ability to upgrade and develop our systems (including the “replatforming” of our base PayPal technology), infrastructure and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to improve the functionality and reliability of our websites, mobile platforms and services at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7 operations; our ability to respond effectively to increased competitive pressure in our ecommerce and Payments businesses globally, including from competitors such as Alibaba Group Holding Ltd., which has a very strong regional presence and may look to use that presence to expand; the effectiveness of our efforts to increase the rate of growth in our StubHub business, which was slower than projected in the first half of 2014; the primary and secondary effects of previously announced and possible future changes to our pricing, products and policies, including, among other changes, restrictions or holds on payments made to certain sellers or in connection with certain transactions; updates to our seller performance standards; changes to our fee structure; changes to the checkout process; new functionality for sellers to specify shipping, payment and return policies (collectively referred to as “business policies”), (sellers began to be opted into some of these business policies in August 2013 and all of them will become mandatory in 2015); automatic enrollment of new sellers in an automated eBay returns process, and other products and features through which we are increasingly intermediating more aspects of transactions between buyers and sellers using our platforms; our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users, especially in countries where market penetration of our services is high or if the growth of online and mobile commerce slows, and encourage existing users to list items for sale and purchase items through our websites and mobile platforms, or use our payment services, especially in the face of improving competitor platforms; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions using our websites and technology (including through mobile devices) and customer concerns arising from the actual or perceived use of personally identifiable information and the effect on such confidence of any changes in our practices and policies or of any events such as the recent data security incident that led us to require eBay Marketplaces customers to reset their passwords or data security breaches at other companies that may impact general consumer confidence in online transactions; our ability to address a slower rate of growth in the Marketplaces segment; the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of new stores, channels, websites, mobile platforms, applications, services, products and functionality, or changes to the provision or prices of products and services important to our success, including interchange, Internet search and mobile operating systems; our ability to effectively manage the costs of and administer our user protection programs; the impact on PayPal or Bill Me Later of regulations enacted pursuant to new laws regulating financial institutions, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the U.S., or the Dodd-Frank Act; our ability to comply with existing and new laws and regulations as we expand the range and geographical scope of our products and services and as we grow larger, including those laws and regulations discussed below under the captions “There are many risks associated with our international operations,” “We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes,” “Our Payments business is subject to a number of laws and regulations, including those governing banking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange and payment services, that vary in the markets where we operate,” “Our Payments business is subject to anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws or regulations,” and “Our Payments business is subject to consumer protection laws and regulations”; new laws or regulations (such as those that may stem from the proposed Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) and Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPP), the European Consumer Rights Directive and the proposed revisions to the European Data Protection Directive) and interpretations of existing laws or regulations that impose liability on us for the actions of our users or otherwise harm our business models, especially as we become more actively involved in various aspects of transactions on our platforms; regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our businesses or our users; our ability to manage the costs of compliance with existing and new laws and regulations that affect our businesses; new laws or regulations (in particular, financial or privacy laws or regulations) enacted in jurisdictions in which we do business that require data (including customer information, transaction data or other information) to be stored locally on servers in that jurisdiction and/or prohibit such data from being transmitted outside of that jurisdiction, which could increase our operational costs or capital expenditures and potentially impact the performance and availability of our services and/or our ability to use or process customer data; the volume, velocity, size, timing, monetization and completion rates of transactions using our websites or technology; our ability to reduce the loss of active buyers and sellers and increase activity of the users of our Marketplaces business, especially with respect to our top buyers and sellers, and increase activity of PayPal account holders, particularly in our merchant services business; our ability to develop product enhancements, programs and features on different platforms and mobile devices at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, including our initiatives to make several PayPal solutions available at the retail point of sale; changes to our use of advertising on our websites and mobile platforms; the costs and results of litigation or regulatory actions that involve us; decisions made as the result of our ongoing strategic review of alternatives as influenced by a new director and input from our stockholders in connection with our now settled proxy contest with Mr. Carl Icahn; technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our websites; disruptions to services provided to us or our users by third parties; our ability to manage the transaction loss rate in our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise businesses; our ability to manage funding costs, credit risk and interest-rate risk associated with our Bill Me Later (now known as PayPal Credit) business and our other credit products; our ability to manage service operations (or effectively partner with a third party for such service operations) for credit portfolios, including at the time we acquire the dual branded retail credit card portfolio currently being jointly offered by PayPal and GE Capital; our ability to successfully and cost-effectively integrate and manage businesses that we acquire; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure; our ability to efficiently manage our capital and cash flows and our ability to effectively manage and deploy free cash within and outside of the United States; our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose services are required for our operations, such as payment card networks and banks; the cost and availability of traditional and online advertising, and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; business disruptions, costs and future events related to shareholder activism; our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective manner and to retain key employees; the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and other commercial counterparties; continued consumer acceptance of the Internet and of mobile devices as a medium for commerce and payments in the face of increasing publicity about data privacy issues, including data breaches, fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, malware and other dangers; and macroeconomic and geopolitical events affecting commerce generally. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. We invest heavily in technology, marketing and promotion, customer support, protection programs and further development of the operating infrastructure for our operations. Some of this investment entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. The growth rate of Internet users is slowing in many countries where we have a significant presence. As our growth rates in established markets slow, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing Marketplaces users (especially our top buyers and sellers) and PayPal account holders (especially in our merchant services business) active and increasing their activity level on our websites and mobile platforms in order to continue to grow those businesses. The growth of Internet users is accelerating in some countries and regions where we do not have a significant presence (e.g., Brazil/Latin America, Russia, China and certain other countries in which we do not have a meaningful (or, in some cases, any) domestic business). If we are unable to establish our businesses and drive adoption of our services in such markets, our future growth would be negatively impacted. New users in such markets exhibit different behaviors than those from our more developed markets; including fewer interactions, lower levels of engagement, lower conversion and/or lower values of each interaction or conversion. Mobile commerce and mobile payments represent an increasingly important part of our businesses. Our users who have joined, and/or primarily interact with, us through mobile devices may exhibit different behaviors than our more traditional ecommerce and payments users. If this and other changes in customer behavior result in fewer interactions, lower levels of engagement, lower conversion and/or lower values of each interaction or conversion, our businesses could be harmed. Our Payments business continues to face increased competitive pressure, including from relatively new competitors and large Internet companies.  In particular, user sophistication and technological advances have increased expectations around the user experience for online and mobile payments, including speed of response and ease of use for both merchants and consumers.  Competitive pressure and technological advancement are also reducing the fees that can be charged for payments services. If we are unable to continue to adapt our services in ways that improve the user experience and increase user engagement, our growth in revenue and global active accounts may be negatively impacted, which could harm our business. Our Marketplaces business continues to face increased competitive pressure online and offline, and due to the convergence of online and offline commerce. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, ecommerce and mobile commerce has significantly increased, due to, among other factors, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. If we are unable to adapt our services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce and mobile commerce marketplaces, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher expected service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), our business will suffer. We regularly announce changes to our Marketplaces business intended to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency and buyer experiences and trust. Some of the changes that we have announced to date have been controversial with, and led to dissatisfaction among, certain of our sellers, and additional changes that we announce in the future may also be negatively received by some of our sellers. This may not only impact the supply of items listed on our websites, but because many sellers also buy from our websites, it may adversely impact demand as well. Given the number of recent changes that we have made and continue to make to our policies and pricing, it may take our sellers some time to fully assess and adjust to these changes, and sellers may elect to reduce volume on our websites and mobile platforms while making such assessments and adjustments or in response to these changes. If any of these changes cause sellers to move their business (in whole or in part) away from our websites and mobile platforms or otherwise fail to improve gross merchandise volume or the number of successful listings, our operating results and profitability will be harmed. We believe that the mix of sales under our traditional auction-style listing format and fixed-price listing format will continue to shift towards our fixed-price format. Accordingly, we have eliminated some of the features related to our traditional auction-style format and expect others will continue to become less meaningful to, and used less frequently by, our sellers, resulting in a corresponding decrease in revenues from those features. We also expect that the costs associated with our seller discount programs will continue to increase as more sellers become eligible for such discounts. In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions originate on the Marketplaces platform, declines in growth rates in major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal’s growth. The expected future growth of PayPal, Enterprise, StubHub and our other lower margin businesses may also cause downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms The sluggish economy and the sovereign debt crisis could harm our business. Our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise businesses are dependent on consumer purchases, and our Enterprise business is also impacted by the offline businesses of our Enterprise clients. The economic downturn resulted in reduced buyer demand and reduced selling prices, and the slow recovery in the U.S., as well as the impact of the sovereign debt crisis and resulting austerity measures in Europe, may reduce the volume and prices of purchases on our Marketplaces platforms, the volume and prices of transactions paid for using our payment services and the online and offline businesses of our Enterprise clients, any of which would adversely affect our business. These macroeconomic factors could also have a negative and adverse impact on companies with which we do business, which in turn could have a further adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates. Because we generate the majority of our revenues outside the U.S. but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, our financial results may be impacted by fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or if exposure reports are delayed. Given that PayPal also holds some corporate and customer funds in non-U.S. currencies, its financial results are affected by the translation of these non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated transactions will result in lower net revenues, operating expenses and net income. For the six months ended June 30, 2014, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar positively impacted net revenues by $92 million (inclusive of a negative impact of approximately $40 million from hedging activities included in Payments net revenue) compared to the same period of the prior year. As foreign currency exchange rates vary relative to the U.S. dollar, net revenues and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, British pound, Korean won, Australian dollar or Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced as a result of these translation adjustments. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to predict or completely eliminate the effects of this exposure. Fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates could significantly impact our financial results, which may result in an impact on the price of our stock. In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Relatively low interest rates have continued to limit our investment income, including income we earn on PayPal customer balances. In addition, we may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including through public or private offerings of debt securities, or through the credit markets. A rise in interest rates would increase the cost of such indebtedness in the future. Fluctuations in interest rates that limit our investment income and/or increase the cost of future indebtedness could adversely affect our financial results. Bill Me Later’s operations depend on lending services provided by unaffiliated lenders. In September 2010, WebBank became the issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products. In August 2013, Comenity Capital Bank became an issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products, and WebBank transferred most of the customer accounts that it owned to Comenity Capital Bank.  As part of this arrangement, we sell Comenity Capital Bank a participation interest in the entire pool of consumer receivables outstanding under the customer accounts that it originates and WebBank continues to originate loans on those accounts that it retained.   Bill Me Later also has put in place an arrangement with WebBank whereby WebBank has agreed to resume ownership of (and resume lending with respect to) all customer accounts in the event of a termination or interruption in Comenity Capital Bank’s ability to lend. However, if such a termination or interruption occurs with little or no advance notice, the origination of new transactions under the Bill Me Later program will not be possible until the new arrangement is implemented, which could materially and adversely affect Bill Me Later’s business.  Both Comenity Capital Bank and WebBank are industrial banks chartered by the State of Utah. Any termination or interruption of WebBank’s or Comenity Capital Bank’s ability to lend could result in the inability to originate any new transactions under the Bill Me Later program, which would require us either to reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution, which, if possible at all, may not be available on favorable terms, or to obtain our own bank charter, which would be a time-consuming and costly process and, if possible at all, would subject us to a number of additional laws and regulations, as well as capital requirements, compliance with which would be costly and burdensome. In May 2010, a lawsuit was filed against Bill Me Later, PayPal and eBay in California state court, alleging that in its relationship with the chartered financial institution, Bill Me Later is acting as the true lender to customers and violating various California laws, including the state’s usury law. That suit was later removed to the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. In September 2011, WebBank requested to intervene in the action and was added as a party to the action. In October 2011, the court transferred the case to the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah. Following the transfer, the Utah Court allowed plaintiffs the opportunity to amend the complaint and plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in February 2012. We and WebBank filed a motion to dismiss all claims in the amended complaint in March 2012. A hearing on the motion was held by the court in September 2012. In May 2014, the court ruled in our favor, dismissing all claims in the plaintiffs’ lawsuit. The plaintiff did not appeal the lower court’s ruling. Our Payments business is subject to a number of laws and regulations, including those governing banking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange and payment services, that vary in the markets where we operate. Our Payments business is subject to various laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries where it operates, including those governing banking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange and payment services, such as payment processing and settlement services. The legal and regulatory requirements that apply to our Payments business vary in the markets where we operate and have increased over time as the geographical scope and complexity of our business and products have expanded. While our Payments business has a compliance program focused on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and has significantly increased the resources of that program in the last several years, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to fines or other enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions or be required to make changes to our business practices or compliance programs to comply in the future. Any new laws and regulations (or changes to, or expansion of, the interpretation or application of existing laws and regulations) applicable to our Payments business could subject us to additional restrictions on our operations, additional compliance and licensure requirements and increased regulatory scrutiny, which could force us to change our business practices or limit our ability to grow our business. Costs associated with fines, enforcement actions, changes in compliance requirements or limits on our ability to grow our business, could adversely affect our financial results and harm our Payments business While PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send payments from approximately 200 markets, PayPal only allows customers in 110 of those markets (including the U.S.) to receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. These limitations may affect PayPal’s ability to grow in these markets. Of the markets whose residents can use the PayPal service, 32 (28 countries plus four French overseas departments) are members of the European Union, or EU. Since 2007, PayPal has provided localized versions of its service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l. et Cie, SCA (PayPal (Europe)), a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, privacy, information security, taxation, sanctions or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks. Any fines or other enforcement actions imposed by the Luxembourg regulator could adversely affect PayPal’s business. PayPal (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries through a “passport” notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the “passport” notification process in all EU member countries other than Croatia. The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. These or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, PayPal’s plans for expanding its business in EU countries. In addition, national interpretations of regulations implementing the EU Payment Services Directive, which established a new regulatory regime for payment services providers in 2009, may be inconsistent, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. The European Commission has proposed revisions to the Payments Services Directive, which could further make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. In Australia, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Australia Pty. Ltd., which is licensed by the Australian Securities Investment Commission as a financial product and by the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. Accordingly, PayPal Australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, privacy, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Australian depository institutions. In China, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Pte. Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore (3PL). To date, PayPal has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter (or its equivalent), in 47 U.S. states, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico and the U.S. Virgin Islands. PayPal is also licensed as an escrow agent in one U.S. state. The two remaining U.S. states where PayPal has not applied for a license do not currently regulate money transmitters. PayPal’s subsidiary Venmo, which was acquired as part of the Braintree acquisition, provides its peer-to-peer payment service as an agent of an unaffiliated money transmitter, PreCash. Venmo is also licensed as a money transmitter in California and Washington, has applied for a license in Hawaii and may need to obtain additional state licenses. As licensed money transmitters, PayPal and Venmo are subject to restrictions on their investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements and inspection by state regulatory agencies. If PayPal or Venmo were found to be in violation of money services laws or regulations, PayPal or Venmo could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change its business practices or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on PayPal or Venmo. Any change to PayPal’s business practices that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could also decrease the velocity of trade on eBay and websites operated by Enterprise clients that accept PayPal as a form of payment, which would further harm our business. In 2012, PayPal’s California regulator, the Division of Financial Institutions under the California Department of Business Oversight, notified PayPal that PayPal’s practice of holding the funds underlying U.S. customer balances as an agent on behalf of its customers, rather than as owner of those funds, meant that PayPal could not treat those funds as liquid assets for purposes of the liquidity rules applicable to California money transmitter licensees.  Based on changes to our U.S. PayPal user agreement effective November 2012, PayPal began holding U.S. customer balances as direct claims against PayPal, rather than as an agent or custodian on behalf of such PayPal customers. As a result, effective November 2012, all U.S. PayPal customer balances, which were previously reported as off-balance sheet, have been reflected as assets in our consolidated balance sheet under ""Funds receivable and customer accounts,"" with an associated liability under ""Funds payable and amounts due to customers."" In addition, the customer balances are not qualified for pass-through FDIC insurance and U.S. PayPal customers are general creditors of PayPal with respect to such customer balances. In markets other than the U.S., the EU, Australia, Canada, Brazil and Russia, PayPal serves its customers through 3PL. 3PL is supervised in Singapore as a holder of a stored value facility. As 3PL is supervised as a holder of a stored value facility, and does not hold a remittance license, 3PL is not able to offer remittance payments (including donations to charities) in Singapore, and can only offer payments for the purchase of goods and services. In many of the markets (other than Singapore) served by 3PL, it is not clear whether PayPal’s Singapore-based service is subject only to Singaporean law or, if it is subject to local laws, whether such local laws would require a payment processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial institution or otherwise. In such markets, PayPal may rely on partnerships with local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange in local currency. Local regulators, who do not have direct jurisdiction over Singapore-based 3PL, may use their local regulatory power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through PayPal’s local banking partner. Such regulatory actions impacting local banking partner arrangements could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of PayPal services in a given market, or could prevent PayPal from providing any services in a given market. For example, in November 2010, the Reserve Bank of India issued guidelines to Indian banks on the requirements for processing export-related transactions for online payment gateway service providers such as PayPal, including an initial limitation on the amount of individual transactions to no more than $500 (subsequently increased to $3,000 in October 2011 and to $10,000 in June 2013). The Reserve Bank has also approved an application by PayPal’s processing bank in India which permits PayPal to process domestic Indian transactions, subject to the domestic payment intermediary directions issued by the Reserve Bank and other conditions. The Reserve Bank could impose a suspension if it is not satisfied with PayPal’s and its partner bank’s actions to comply with these guidelines. In the event of any non-compliance, PayPal could be subject to fines from the Reserve Bank, and PayPal’s prospects for future business in India, both cross-border and domestic, could be materially and adversely affected. In Taiwan, changes to foreign exchange regulations have required PayPal to change its processes in order to continue offering Taiwanese merchants the ability to receive payments in non-Taiwanese currency and withdraw those payments to their Taiwanese bank in Taiwanese currency. As a result, PayPal has set up a subsidiary in Taiwan to apply for Taiwanese certification, which would enable PayPal to declare foreign exchange transactions on behalf of Taiwanese merchants. In addition, we have entered into a commercial agreement with a Taiwanese bank to facilitate withdrawals for our customers in Taiwan. Additionally, new payment aggregator regulations in Mexico will require PayPal to register as a payment aggregator and localize the service and offer such service through a Mexican entity. We have until September 2015 to comply with these regulations; however, compliance with these new regulations could impose substantial additional costs and could be operationally difficult to manage. Even if PayPal is not currently required to be licensed in some jurisdictions, future localization or targeted marketing of PayPal’s service or expansion of the financial products offered by PayPal in those countries (whether alone or through a commercial alliance, joint venture or an acquisition) could subject PayPal to additional licensure requirements, laws and regulations and increased regulatory scrutiny. Even if PayPal does not expand its services in the countries it currently serves, changes in the laws of those countries could also require us to obtain new licenses or submit new registrations. For example, PayPal has begun the process of acquiring a license in Brazil and expects that new laws or regulations may require license applications in the near future in Turkey, China and Hong Kong. There can be no assurance that PayPal will be able to obtain any such licenses. Even if PayPal were able to obtain such licenses, there are substantial costs and potential product changes involved in maintaining such licenses, and PayPal would be subject to fines or other enforcement action if it violates disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements of such licenses. These factors could impose substantial additional costs and involve considerable delay to the development or provision of PayPal’s products in certain countries. Delay or failure to receive such a license or regulatory approval could require PayPal to change its business practices or features in ways that could adversely affect PayPal’s expansion plans or force PayPal to suspend providing products and services to customers in one or more countries. In November 2008, we acquired Bill Me Later, a company that facilitates credit services offered by unaffiliated banks. Bill Me Later is neither a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state. Accordingly, Bill Me Later must rely on a bank or licensed lender to issue the Bill Me Later credit products and extend credit to consumers to offer the Bill Me Later service. Currently, when a consumer makes a purchase using a Bill Me Later credit product, a chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase and retain most of the consumer receivables related to the consumer loans made by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of the purchase, bear most of the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each of the customer accounts, we own most of the related consumer receivables and Bill Me Later is also responsible for servicing functions related to the customer account. Our Payments business is subject to anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations. Our Payments business is also subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. PayPal is focused on compliance with these laws and regulations and has programs designed to comply with new and existing anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing legal and regulatory requirements. However, any errors, failures or delays in complying with federal, state or foreign anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties, forfeiture of significant assets or other enforcement actions. Any new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations (or changes to, or expansion of, the interpretation or application of existing laws and regulations) applicable to our Payments business could subject us to additional restrictions on our operations, additional compliance and licensure requirements and increased regulatory scrutiny, which could force us to change our business practices or limit our ability to grow our business. Costs associated with fines or enforcement actions, changes in our compliance requirements or limitations on our ability to grow our business, could have an adverse effect on our financial results and harm our Payments business. In the U.S., PayPal is subject to regulations that require it to report, within required timeframes, suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more, and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. In addition, regulations governing prepaid access programs, which took full effect in March 2012, require PayPal to take additional steps to verify the identity of customers who pre-fund a PayPal balance. U.S. regulators have increased their scrutiny of compliance with these obligations. New and existing anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regulations may require PayPal to further revise or expand its compliance program, including the procedures it uses to verify the identity of its customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. Several countries in which PayPal is regulated, including Australia, Japan, Luxembourg and Singapore, have implemented new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and PayPal has had to make changes to its compliance program in response. In the next few years, Japan may make additional revisions to the existing payments laws and could enact a new anti-money laundering law. In November 2009, the Australian anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regulator (AUSTRAC) accepted an enforceable undertaking from PayPal Australia pursuant to which PayPal Australia agreed, among other things, to appoint an independent auditor to assess PayPal Australia’s anti-money laundering compliance policies and procedures and issue a report identifying any unremediated deficiencies accompanied by a plan by PayPal to remedy any such deficiencies. Pursuant to the remediation plan submitted by PayPal Australia and accepted by AUSTRAC, PayPal Australia was required to invest in significant improvements to its anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing systems, policies and operations. AUSTRAC formally notified PayPal of the completion of the enforceable undertaking in early 2013. As PayPal continues to localize its services in additional jurisdictions, it could be required to meet standards similar to or more burdensome than those in Australia. In June 2013, the Monetary Authority of Singapore (MAS) requested that PayPal submit a Global Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Risk Assessment Report (Risk Report). After the submission of the Risk Report, the MAS requested that PayPal submit a Global Anti-Money Laundering and Counter-Terrorist Financing Risk Management Proposal which PayPal submitted in March 2014. The MAS could require modifications to PayPal’s existing compliance program as a condition of approving the Proposal. The European Commission has also announced a consultation process to consider revisions to the European Anti-Money Laundering Directive. Additionally, the Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which took effect at the start of 2013, is likely to require an increase in the number of non-U.S. customers from whom we must obtain certain certifications, as further discussed under the caption “Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes” below, and to increase the compliance burdens on us. These requirements, together with any new requirements or changes to existing requirements, could impose significant costs on PayPal, result in delays to planned product improvements, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the attractiveness of its products Our Payments business is subject to consumer protection laws and regulations. Our Payments business is subject to consumer protection laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries in which it operates. PayPal is focused on compliance with these laws and regulations and has programs designed to comply with new and existing consumer protection requirements. However, any errors, failures or delays in complying with such consumer protection laws and regulations could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties, forfeiture of significant assets or other enforcement actions. Any new consumer protection laws and regulations (or changes to, or expansion of, the interpretation or application of existing laws and regulations) applicable to our Payments business could subject us to additional restrictions on our operations, additional compliance and licensure requirements and increased regulatory scrutiny, which could force us to change our business practices or limit our ability to grow our business. Costs associated with fines or enforcement actions, changes in our compliance requirements or limitations on our ability to grow our business, could have an adverse effect on our financial results and harm our Payments business. Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date, PayPal has taken actions as though its service is subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board. Under such regulations, among other things, PayPal is required to provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, to follow specified error resolution procedures and to reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer. PayPal seeks to pass most of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its PayPal account. Additionally, even technical violations of these laws can result in penalties of up to $1,000 for each non-compliant transaction or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action, and we could also be liable for plaintiffs’ attorneys’ fees. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. PayPal, Inc. and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations related to violations of aspects of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E and violations of a previous settlement agreement related to Regulation E, and/or allege that PayPal improperly held users’ funds or otherwise improperly limited users’ accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal’s practices, among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Regulation E or violations of other laws relating to PayPal’s practices could expose PayPal to significant liability. A lawsuit that has been filed by a consumer association in Germany also addresses PayPal’s practices to hold users’ funds and aims at more transparency in the terms and conditions towards consumers as to when a user can expect PayPal to impose account limitations. Any changes to PayPal’s practices resulting from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend substantial resources, which could delay other planned product launches or improvements and further harm our business. In January 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (CFPB) finalized rules under Regulation E, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, which required PayPal, beginning in October 2013, to provide additional disclosures, error resolution rights and cancellation rights to U.S. consumers who make international remittance payments. These remittance transfer rule requirements could increase our costs of processing international payments and adversely affect our business. In January 2014, the CFPB proposed a regulation that would allow it to supervise all companies, including PayPal, that provide more than one million international money transfers per year. Under the proposal, CFPB examiners would be able to examine PayPal for compliance with the remittance transfer rule. On August 7, 2013 and January 13, 2014, we received Civil Investigative Demands (CIDs) from the CFPB requesting that we provide testimony, produce documents and provide information relating primarily to the acquisition, management, and operation of the Bill Me Later business, including online credit products and services, advertising, loan origination, customer acquisition, servicing, debt collection, and complaints handling practices.  We are cooperating with the CFPB in connection with the CIDs. The CIDs could lead to an enforcement action and/or one or more consent orders, which may result in substantial costs, including legal fees, fines, penalties and remediation expenses. In addition, resolution of any inquiry could require us to change the manner in which we operate the Bill Me Later business, which could adversely affect our financial results and results of operations. Changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules or practices could harm our Payments business. PayPal does not directly access payment card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, which enable PayPal’s acceptance of credit cards and debit cards (including some types of prepaid cards). As a result, PayPal must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions, and must pay fees for this service. From time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. For example, in 2013, MasterCard announced a new Staged Digital Wallet Operator Annual Network Access Fee which applies to many of PayPal’s transactions if the buyer uses a MasterCard to fund their payment. PayPal’s payment card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to PayPal as well as increase their own fees for processing. Changes in interchange fees and assessments could increase PayPal’s operating costs and reduce its profit margins. In addition, in some jurisdictions, governments have required Visa and MasterCard to reduce interchange fees, or have opened investigations as to whether Visa or MasterCard’s interchange fees and practices violate antitrust law. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act enacted in 2010 authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to regulate debit card interchange rates and debit card network exclusivity provisions, and in June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule capping debit card interchange fees at significantly lower rates than Visa or MasterCard previously charged. Any material reduction in credit or debit card interchange rates in the U.S. or other markets could jeopardize PayPal’s competitive position against traditional credit and debit card processors, although it would also lower PayPal’s costs. While the regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board in June 2011 do not treat PayPal as a “payment card network,” future changes to those regulations or to PayPal’s business could potentially cause PayPal to be treated as a payment card network, which could subject PayPal to additional regulation and require PayPal to change its business practices, which could reduce PayPal’s revenue and adversely affect PayPal’s business PayPal is required by its processors to comply with payment card network operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by PayPal or PayPal’s customers. The payment card networks set and interpret the card rules. Payment card networks have from time to time alleged that various aspects of PayPal’s business model violate these operating rules. If such allegations are not resolved, they could result in material fines and penalties or require changes in PayPal’s business that may be costly. The payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. As a result, PayPal could lose its ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments, or could lose its ability to give customers the choice of currency in which they would like their card to be charged, which would reduce PayPal’s revenues from cross-border trade. If PayPal were unable to accept payment cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In addition, the velocity of trade on eBay and websites operated by Enterprise clients that accept PayPal as a form of payment could decrease and our business would further suffer. PayPal is also required to comply with payment card networks’ special operating rules for payment service providers to merchants. PayPal and its payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchant customers in order to comply with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in fines, the amount of which would be within the payment card networks’ discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines from payment card networks if it fails to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. For “high risk” merchants, PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using PayPal or register such merchants with payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has incurred fines from its payment card processors relating to PayPal’s failure to detect the use of its service by illegal or “high risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has not been material, but any additional fines in the future would likely be for larger amounts, could become material and could result in a termination of PayPal’s ability to accept payment cards or require changes in PayPal’s process for registering new customers, which would significantly damage PayPal’s business. PayPal’s retail point-of-sale solution and PayPal Here product are also subject to payment card network operating rules, which may increase the costs of those products or otherwise negatively impact their deployment, particularly internationally. Similarly, consumers of the websites operated by Enterprise clients typically pay for purchases by payment card or similar payment method. Accordingly, our Enterprise business faces risks similar to the risks described above for PayPal. The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, including pirated or counterfeit items, may harm our business. We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our services by our users infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names or other intellectual property rights. See “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above. There are over 40,000 rights owners in our verified rights owner (VeRO) program, and each rights owner has anywhere from one to several hundred brands. Although we have sought to work actively with the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings offering infringing items on our websites and mobile platforms, some rights owners have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient. Allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights have resulted in threatened and actual litigation against us from time to time by rights owners, including litigation brought by luxury brand owners such as Tiffany & Co. in the U.S.; Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany; Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France; and L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. The plaintiffs in these cases sought to hold eBay liable for alleged counterfeit items listed on our websites by third parties; for “tester” and other consumer products labeled in a manner to prevent resale and for unboxed and other allegedly nonconforming products in each case listed on our websites by third parties; for the alleged misuse of trademarks or copyrights in listings or otherwise on our websites and in connection with paid search advertisements; for alleged violations of selective distribution channel laws or parallel import laws for listings of authentic items; and for alleged non-compliance with consumer protection laws Plaintiffs in these and similar suits seek, among other remedies, injunctive relief and damages. Statutory damages for copyright or trademark violations could range up to $150,000 per copyright violation and $2,000,000 per trademark violation in the U.S., and may be even higher in other jurisdictions. These and similar suits may also force us to modify our business practices. For example, in June 2013, the German Federal Supreme Court partially confirmed a decision by the Hamburg Court of Appeal in a matter where we had been found liable to prevent infringing children’s chairs from appearing on eBay’s German website, and ruled that as a result of keyword advertising that linked to search result lists, we were required to increase efforts to ensure that those search results were free from infringing content upon initial notification of such content. This decision may require us to change our business practices in Germany in a manner that increases our costs and lowers our revenue. In addition, rights owners have aggressively sought to reduce the applicability of limitations to intellectual property rights such as copyright exhaustion and the first sale doctrine in cases such as Vernor v. Autodesk Inc. (Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals) and Wiley v. Kirtsaeng (U.S. Supreme Court). Although the U.S. Supreme Court’s ruling in Wiley v. Kirtsaeng overturned the Second Circuit Court of Appeals’ ruling and established that the first sale doctrine applies in the U.S. to products lawfully made outside the U.S., some rights owners oppose that reasoning and have expressed support for a legislative change to the U.S. Copyright Act. To the extent the scope or applicability of such doctrines is limited or narrowed, the supply of goods available for resale on our websites and mobile platforms may be adversely affected. In the aggregate, these and similar suits may force us to modify our business practices, which could lower our revenue, increase our costs or make our websites and mobile platforms less convenient to our customers or result in significant damage awards and injunctions, which could materially harm our business. In addition to regulatory, civil or criminal proceedings and penalties if governmental authorities believe we have aided and abetted in the sale of counterfeit goods, we may also be subject to litigation from rights owners arguing we are liable for the sale of counterfeit goods by our users. While we have had some past success in defending against such litigation, more recent cases have been based, at least in part, on different legal theories than those of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in defending against such litigation. Plaintiffs in recent cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe harbors under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a hosting provider in the EU under the Electronic Commerce Directive because of the alleged active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and that whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should be found liable because we supposedly have not adequately removed listings that are counterfeit or are authentic but allegedly violate trademark or copyright law or effectively suspended users who have created such listings. While we do not believe the European Court of Justice decision in the case filed in 2009 by L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie, Laboratoire Garnier & Cie and L’Oréal (UK) Ltd against eBay International AG, other eBay companies and several eBay sellers that was settled in January 2014 (the L’Oréal case), changes the standard for hosting immunity under the Electronic Commerce Directive, rights owners in European jurisdictions have asserted that our degree of participation in the transaction should cause us to be unable to take advantage of the hosting immunity exception. Final resolution of this issue has been left to the national courts of member countries in the EU. We believe that the legal climate, especially in Europe, is becoming more adverse to our positions, which may require us to take actions which could lower our revenues, increase our costs or make our websites and mobile platforms less convenient to our customers, which could materially harm our business. In certain emerging markets, the government may be less experienced in dealing with online or mobile commerce and/or hosting immunity protections may be more limited or not available at all. In addition, public perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on our websites, even if factually incorrect, would damage our reputation, lower the price our sellers receive for their items and damage our business. We are continuously seeking to improve and modify our efforts to eliminate counterfeit and pirated items through ongoing business initiatives designed to reduce bad buyer experiences and improve customer satisfaction and by responding to new patterns we are seeing among counterfeiters and others committing fraud on our users. Increased intermediation of transactions between buyers and sellers may result in us being unable to rely, to the same extent that we have in the past, on hosting immunity and other secondary liability safe harbors when sued by users and rights owners over actions taken on our site by our users. While we are taking steps to mitigate the potential impact on our safe harbor defenses, we may be subject to more intellectual property litigation and may lose more cases as a result of these business model changes, which would adversely affect our business and results of operations. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may also seek to bring legal action against entities that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the use of PayPal’s payment services in a transaction involving the sale of infringing items, including on our websites or mobile platforms, our business could be harmed. Several jurisdictions have adopted new laws in these areas, and others are considering imposing additional restrictions. In addition, new laws have been proposed regulating ecommerce companies with respect to intellectual property issues. For example, ACTA and TPP are trade agreements that include international standards for enforcing intellectual property rights, including provisions regarding counterfeit goods and online piracy. The European Commission is considering revising the Intellectual Property Enforcement Directive, which could potentially increase our exposure to enforcement actions from rights owners. Implementation of these or similar laws could require us to change our business practices, increase our compliance costs and harm our business. Rights owners have also increasingly gone into U.S. courts and obtained injunctions requiring PayPal to cease handling transactions for named websites and third parties (in most cases located outside the U.S.) and to hold the funds of such parties pending judicial resolution of such rights owners’ claims against such parties, which disrupts the relationship between PayPal and such parties and, if such parties sell on our Marketplaces platforms, could also adversely affect our Marketplaces business We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties’ patents. We are a defendant in a number of patent suits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. We expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise segments. Among the reasons for this are our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity (e.g., our mobile, local, social and data initiatives); we continue to expand into new businesses, including through acquisitions; and the universe of patent owners who may claim that we, companies that we have acquired, or our customers (including PayPal merchants and Enterprise clients) infringe their patents and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners correspondingly increases Such claims may be brought directly against us and/or against our customers, including PayPal merchants and Enterprise clients, whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or as a business matter. We believe that an increasing number of these claims against us and other technology companies have been, and continue to be, initiated by third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. In addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries (e.g., mobile telephony). Patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. Use of our services for illegal purposes could harm our business We may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or unlawful services, or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner. As a result, we (including our employees and directors of our various entities) have been and may continue to be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws, including anti-scalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, laws restricting or prohibiting the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of digital goods (e.g., event tickets, books, music and software), the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, customs laws, distance selling laws and the sale of items outside of the U.S. that are regulated by U.S. export controls. For example: In Turkey, local prosecutors and courts are investigating our liability for allegedly illegal actions by users of our Turkish Marketplaces business (GittiGidiyor). In accordance with local law and custom, they are considering indicting, and have in some cases already indicted, one or more members of the board of directors of our local Turkish subsidiary. We intend to defend vigorously against any such actions. In August 2012, we were informed that U.S. listings of footwear with religious imagery were visible on our local Indian site and we immediately removed these listings. In September 2012, a criminal case was registered against us in India in regard to these listings, and we are challenging the prosecution of this case. The German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may have a duty to take reasonable measures to prevent prohibited DVDs from being sold on our site to minors and that competitors may be able to enforce this duty. As we seek to reduce bad buying experiences and improve the customer experience on our sites, our level of interaction with buyers and sellers may increase over time, which could in turn increase our potential exposure to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. Although we have prohibited the listing of illegal and stolen goods and certain high-risk items and implemented other protective measures, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings. In addition we may incur costs as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods. Certain manufacturers and large retailers have sought new U.S. federal and state legislation regarding stolen goods that could limit our ability to allow sellers to use our sites without confirming the source of, and their legal rights to sell, the underlying goods. In addition, from time to time we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal goods and stolen goods using our services. This negative publicity could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names and make users reluctant to use our products and services. PayPal’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music and other copyrighted or trademarked goods, money laundering, terrorist financing, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, online securities fraud and encouraging, promoting, facilitating or instructing others to engage in illegal activities. There has been an increased focus by rights owners and U.S. government officials on the role that payments systems play in the sale of, and payment for, pirated digital goods on the Internet, primarily through file sharing services. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities and additional payments-related proposals are under active consideration by government policymakers. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, illegal activities could still be funded using PayPal. Any resulting claims could damage our reputation and any resulting liabilities, loss of transaction volume or increased costs could harm our business and our financial results. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our service. The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services remain unsettled in many jurisdictions. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability under a number of these theories have been brought against us, as well as other online service companies. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit, or impose liability for, the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our Marketplaces service allows users to leave feedback, which includes information from users regarding other users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could be made in the future against us for not removing content posted as feedback. Furthermore, certain court decisions arguably have narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to online service providers like us in the U.S. under the Communications Decency Act. For example, the Ninth Circuit has held that certain immunity provisions under the Communications Decency Act might not apply to the extent that a website owner materially contributes to the development of unlawful content on its website. As our websites continue to add, change or expand the scope of our services, including through increased intermediation of transactions between Buyers and Sellers, challenges to the applicability of these immunities can be expected to continue. In addition, the Paris Court of Appeal ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that applicable laws protecting passive Internet “hosts” from liability are inapplicable to eBay given that eBay actively promotes bidding on its sellers’ listings and receives a commission on successful transactions, and is therefore a broker. The European Court of Justice (ECJ) decision in the L’Oréal case gave broad discretion to national courts in Europe to determine if Internet hosting immunity applies to eBay. Similarly, the ECJ decision in Google v. AEPD purported to extend the jurisdictional reach of member states over foreign Internet companies. Accordingly, our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled, may increase. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results. The increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties. A large number of transactions occur on our websites and mobile platforms on a daily basis. Government regulators have received a significant number of consumer complaints about our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise businesses, which, while small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been contacted by various U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure practices from the Federal Trade Commission and regarding these and other business practices from the attorneys general of a number of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase educational messaging to users about funding choices and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. From time to time, we face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to actions that we have taken that are designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites and we may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. For example, in 2008, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. From time to time, other regulators have requested information concerning PayPal’s limitations of customer accounts. Similarly, from time to time Bill Me Later has received customer complaints that could result in investigations into Bill Me Later’s business practices by state or federal regulators. As a result of the U.S. credit crisis, new laws and regulations have been, and are expected to be, adopted and implemented that impose additional obligations and restrictions on the provision of credit. We are also cooperating with the CFPB in connection with the CIDs as further discussed in more detail above under the caption “Our Payments business is subject to consumer protection laws and regulations.” Following our public announcement in May 2014 that criminals were able to penetrate and steal certain data, including user names, encrypted user passwords and other non-financial user data from certain Marketplaces business unit data bases, we received requests for information regarding the incident from numerous regulatory and other government agencies across the world. While we have not been informed of any planned enforcement actions, one or more of these inquiries may lead to charges or penalties being imposed on us. We are likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, including under new or existing credit laws or regulations, relating to our business, products and services. We have responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures, operating procedures and disclosures of the relevant business. If one or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties or forced to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. One or more of these agencies also might take action against other companies with similar businesses which could force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes. From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. These disputes and inquiries include lawsuits by our users (individually or as class actions) alleging, among other things, improper credit and/or collection activities; improper disclosure of our prices, rules or policies; that our prices, rules, policies or customer/user agreements violate applicable law; that we have not acted in conformity with such prices, rules, policies or agreements; or violations of privacy laws and policies, including violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. section 227 et seq. (TCPA), as discussed in more detail under the captions “Changes in regulations, regulatory scrutiny or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business,” and “Our Payments business is subject to consumer protection laws and regulations.” The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries continue to increase as our company has grown larger, our businesses have expanded in scope (e.g., our mobile, local, social and data initiatives and our continuing geographical expansion) and our products and services have increased in complexity. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the courts as our products and services to users continue to expand and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable, as discussed in more detail under the caption “New and existing regulations could harm our business.” As an increasing portion of our business shifts to mobile, we may be subject to additional laws and regulations, which may have significant penalties. In addition, we are also subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws of general applicability, including laws regulating working conditions. The U.S. Department of Justice (DOJ) and the State of California have alleged that we violated U.S. and California antitrust law by agreeing not to recruit employees from other technology companies.  We filed a motion to dismiss the cases asserted against us and, in September 2013, the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California granted the motion to dismiss regarding the California asserted case but denied the motion to dismiss regarding the DOJ asserted case. In May 2014, we settled this matter with the DOJ and the settlement was subsequently filed and is subject to approval by the court. Pursuant to the settlement agreement, we agreed to refrain from maintaining or entering into new agreements with other companies to restrict the recruitment and hiring of employees. These claims and any other claims or regulatory actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, damage awards (including statutory damages for certain causes of action in certain jurisdictions), injunctive relief or increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or settlement, require us to change our business practices in expensive ways, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources or otherwise harm our business. Changes to our programs to protect buyers and sellers could increase our costs and loss rate. Our eBay and PayPal buyer protection programs represent the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased or have received an item different than what was described. eBay periodically receives complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased and users who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their payment card company or bank, which in turn will seek recovery from PayPal. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is slowly beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for third-party actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Beginning in 2009, we changed the dispute resolution process for Marketplaces transactions for buyers in the U.S., U.K. and Germany to a dispute resolution process provided by eBay customer support, which serves as the primary entry point for buyers in these countries if they are unable to resolve their disputes with eBay sellers. Among other things, the resolutions process provides that eBay will generally reimburse the buyer for the full amount of an item’s purchase price (including original shipping costs) in cases where the item was not received or the item they received was different from that described in the listing and the seller does not provide adequate resolution to the buyer. eBay then attempts to recoup amounts paid to the buyer from the seller’s PayPal accounts or through other collection methods. In 2013 we simplified the process for filing a resolutions case, which resulted in a significant increase in the number of cases being opened. Our costs associated with resolutions have increased as a result of these changes to our resolutions policies and process, in part because eBay Marketplaces may not have the same level of rights of recoupment against sellers as PayPal, resulting in higher costs to operate the program. Over the last several years, we have also enhanced the buyer and seller protections offered by PayPal in certain eBay marketplaces, and in certain countries for transactions outside of eBay marketplaces. In October 2013, PayPal launched and expanded its seller protection to eligible merchants in the Asia Pacific region. These changes to PayPal’s buyer and seller protection program could result in future changes and fluctuations in our Payments transaction loss rate. For the year ended December 31, 2013 and the six months ended June 30, 2014, our Payments transaction and loan losses (including both direct losses and buyer protection payouts for PayPal and Bill Me Later) totaled $551 million and $294 million, representing 0.32% and 0.28% of our net total payment volume, respectively. These changes to the buyer and seller protections offered by eBay and PayPal, together with any additional changes that we may make to our resolutions process in the future, may be negatively received by, and lead to dissatisfaction on the part of, some of our sellers, and may also result in an increase in buyer fraud and associated transaction losses. Increased costs, loss rates or liabilities resulting from eBay and/or PayPal’s current buyer and seller protection programs or changes to such buyer and seller protection programs, could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Failure to deal effectively with fraud, bad transactions and negative customer experiences would increase our loss rate and harm our business. PayPal’s highly automated and liquid payment service makes PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using stolen payment card or bank account numbers can potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal’s current and former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone out of business or significantly restricted their businesses largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent PayPal’s anti-fraud systems using increasingly sophisticated methods. From time to time, such fraudsters may discover and exploit vulnerabilities that may not immediately be identified and remediated, which may in turn result in one-time increases in fraud and associated transaction losses, which may be substantial. In addition, because users frequently use the same passwords for different sites, a data breach of a third party site can result in a spike in eBay and/or PayPal transaction losses. PayPal’s service could also be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse customers for any losses incurred as a result of such breaches. Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud. Additional fraud risks associated with PayPal’s point of sale solutions are described below under the caption “PayPal’s retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks.” PayPal incurs substantial losses due to claims from buyers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant’s description, whether those claims arise from merchant fraud or from an unintentional failure to perform by the merchant. PayPal seeks to recover such losses from the merchant, but may not be able to recover in full if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from erroneous transmissions and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. In addition, if losses incurred by PayPal related to payment card transactions become excessive, they could potentially result in PayPal losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would materially and adversely affect PayPal’s business both on and off eBay. In the event that PayPal was unable to accept payment cards, the velocity of trade on eBay and off eBay (i.e., other websites that accept PayPal as a form of payment) could also decrease, in which case our business would further suffer. The Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, users of the Bill Me Later service and third parties handling its user information. Our Payments business has taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business will suffer. eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from users who may not have received the goods that they had purchased. In some cases, individuals have been arrested and convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay also receives complaints from sellers who have not received payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the item or because the buyer bid on the item maliciously to harm either the seller or eBay. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While eBay can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through its buyer protection program, which in the U.S. we refer to as the eBay Money Back Guarantee. Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise services could reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand names. We believe that negative user experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using our services. In addition, in the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise or concert tickets, custom-made goods and subscriptions), eBay and/or PayPal could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, either through its buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payment through PayPal. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may be insufficient. From time to time, we have considered more active mechanisms designed to combat bad buyer experiences and increase buyer satisfaction, including evaluating sellers on the basis of their transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity as a result. For example, in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada, we may request that PayPal hold seller funds in certain instances (e.g., for sellers with a limited selling history or below-standard performance ratings), which is intended to help improve seller performance and increase buyer satisfaction. We may expand the scope of such programs in the future and introduce other programs with similar aims in these and other countries. Our increased usage of these or other mechanisms to attempt to improve buyer satisfaction could result in dissatisfaction on the part of sellers, loss of share to competing marketplaces, reduced selection of inventory on our sites, increased loss rates and other adverse effects. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade could harm our business. Cross-border trade continues to be an important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border transactions using our websites and mobile platforms generally provide higher revenues and gross margins than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. We generally earn higher transaction fees for cross-border transactions involving PayPal, and our Marketplaces business continues to represent a relatively straightforward way for buyers and sellers to engage in cross-border trade compared with other alternatives. Cross-border trade also represents our primary (or in some cases, only) presence in certain markets in which Internet and mobile device use is accelerating and we have a limited (or no) domestic Marketplaces business, such as Brazil/Latin America, China, Russia and various other countries. The interpretation and application of specific national or regional laws, such as those related to intellectual property rights of authentic products, selective distribution networks, and sellers in other countries listing items on the Internet, and the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the buyer, the seller, and/or the location of the item being sold) are extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. The interpretation and/or application of such laws could impose restrictions on, or increase the costs of, purchasing, selling, shipping or returning goods across national borders. In addition, our cross-border trade is also subject to, and may be impacted by, currency exchange rate fluctuations. To the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar or other currencies, cross-border trade related to purchases of dollar-denominated goods (or goods from those Asia-Pacific countries whose currencies tend to follow the dollar) by non-U.S. purchasers will likely decrease, and that decrease will likely not be offset by a corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies. Even if cross-border trade is not reduced, if more sellers who accept PayPal begin to offer their goods or services in multiple currencies, and to arrange for withdrawal of balances to local bank accounts in multiple countries, this could reduce PayPal’s revenues from foreign exchange fees. In addition to the risks above, any other factors that increase the costs of purchasing, selling, shipping or returning goods across national borders or restrict, delay or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency restrictions, increases in postal or delivery service rates, postal or delivery service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, changes in the business practices of the card networks or participating banks (including dynamic currency conversion), import or export control laws, the application of (or increases in) tariffs, duties or other taxes on imports or exports, customs enforcement, including delays at the border attributable to customs inspections, enforcement of international intellectual property rights by rights holders or court rulings, or that otherwise result in a net reduction in cross-border trade on our websites and mobile platforms would lower our revenues and profits and adversely affect our business. Finally, as part of our ongoing efforts to drive more transactions and improve seller efficiency and buyer experience and trust, we have increased our involvement in different aspects of cross-border transactions (e.g., our Global Shipping Platform and our Global Buying Hub), which could potentially expose us to additional liability based upon the nature of our involvement in aspects of such transactions and/or the actions of our users in one or more countries. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users’ proprietary information. In addition, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. For example, PayPal’s users routinely provide payment card and other financial information, and Enterprise customers routinely provide payment card information and other personally identifiable information which we maintain to facilitate the ease of future transactions. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer payment card numbers; however, such technology may not be sufficient to protect the transmission of our confidential information. In addition, advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. An increasing number of websites, including those owned by several other large Internet and offline companies, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their websites or infrastructure. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service or sabotage systems change frequently, may be difficult to detect for a long time and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. Unauthorized parties may also attempt to gain access to our systems or facilities through various means, including hacking into our systems or facilities, fraud, trickery or other means of deceiving our employees, contractors and temporary staff. Despite our security measures, our information technology and infrastructure may be vulnerable to cyber-attacks or security incidents due to system configuration, employee error, malfeasance or other vulnerabilities. In May 2014, we publicly announced that criminals were able to penetrate and steal certain data, including user names, encrypted user passwords and other non-financial user data, from eBay’s Marketplaces business unit. Upon making this announcement, eBay Marketplaces required all buyers and sellers on the Marketplaces platform to reset their passwords in order to log into their account. The breach and subsequent password reset have negatively impacted the business. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have, in certain instances, made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. For example, in December 2010, PayPal was subject to a series of distributed “denial of service” attacks following PayPal’s decision to indefinitely restrict the account used by WikiLeaks due to an alleged violation of PayPal’s Acceptable Use Policy. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users’ proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users or otherwise damage our reputation. In addition, our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate user names, passwords, payment card numbers or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay, PayPal, StubHub, one of our other businesses, a user of one of our businesses or an Enterprise client, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information through email or download malware. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” activities remain a serious problem. Customers suffering a loss from such a third party compromise may perceive the compromise as emanating from our systems rather than their own, damaging our reputation for security. Enterprise clients also face similar risks of security breaches, and to the extent that such clients are harmed as a result of a security breach, our Enterprise business would also be adversely affected. In addition, under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by PayPal’s direct payment card processing customers, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our businesses would be seriously damaged. Further, we may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult and costly as we expand the number of places where we operate. Financial services regulators in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. and the EU, have implemented or are considering proposals to impose new authentication requirements on banks and payment processors intended to reduce online fraud (e.g., two-factor authentication to verify a user’s identity), which could impose significant costs on PayPal, require PayPal to change its business practices, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the ease of use of its products, which could harm PayPal’s business. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches and we may not be able to fully collect, if at all, under these insurance policies. Changes in regulations, regulatory scrutiny or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users around the world. Much of the personal information that we collect, especially financial information, is regulated by multiple laws. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between or among ourselves, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. In particular, the collection and use of personal information by companies has come under increased regulatory scrutiny. Further, these laws continue to develop in ways we cannot predict and which may adversely impact our business. Regulatory scrutiny of privacy and user data protection is increasing on a global basis. We are subject to a number of local privacy laws and regulations in the countries in which we operate, including the following, and many of those jurisdictions are proactively evaluating changes to those laws and regulations: as an entity licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg, PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l et Cie, SCA is subject to banking secrecy laws; the EU has proposed a General Data Protection Regulation that would supersede the European Data Protection Directive. Changes could increase penalties and fines for failing to comply with the new regulation and it is unclear how consistently the new regulation may be enforced. There is significant international pressure against the U.S. and the National Security Agency (NSA) regarding the collection of data by the NSA from U.S. companies. Further restrictions or regulation in the EU could result as a reaction to these events; new laws or regulations, in particular, financial or privacy laws or regulations, enacted in jurisdictions in which we do business that require data (including customer information, transaction data or other information) to be stored locally on servers in that jurisdiction and/or prohibit such data from being transmitted outside of that jurisdiction, which could increase our operational costs or capital expenditures and potentially impact the performance or availability of our services and/or our ability to use or process customer data; the recent ECJ decision in Google v. AEPD, in which the ECJ found that there is a “right to be forgotten” under the EU Data Protection Directive (i.e. the right to request that personal data be deleted). In deciding this case, the ECJ purported to extend jurisdictional reach over foreign Internet activities. As a result of this decision, significant new restraints may be imposed on the use of personal data throughout the EU, which could impact the growth of Internet businesses in Europe; the EU has also proposed new data laws that give customers additional rights and provide additional restrictions and harsher penalties on companies for illegal collection and misuse of personal information, including restrictions on the use of Internet tracking tools called “cookies.” While the EU directive on cookies has taken effect, the manner in which member states adopt implementing legislation, and whether the EU deems that legislation sufficient, continues to evolve. To the extent implementing legislation by member states is more restrictive, it could negatively impact the manner in which we use cookies for many of our services, ranging from advertising to anti-fraud, and require us to incur additional costs or change our business practices; California and other states continue to pass privacy regulations which may be subsequently copied and passed in other states. For example, effective January 1, 2014, operators of a commercial Internet website that collects personally identifiable information about consumers residing in California must disclose how the website responds to “do not track” signals or other mechanisms that provide consumers the ability to exercise choice about the collection of such information and about a consumer’s online activity over time and across third party services. As many of these laws have yet to be implemented, it is unclear how these laws may impact consumer perception of privacy or how they may impact our businesses; in the U.S., the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the White House have both proposed U.S. privacy frameworks. In 2012, legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate which would have required organizations that suffer a breach of security related to personal information to notify owners of the breached information and, in some instances, notify the Federal Bureau of Investigation or U.S. Secret Service; similar legislation may be introduced and enacted in the future; other countries in which we operate have recently adopted and implemented privacy and data protection laws and regulations for the first time, or are in the process of doing so. Our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with new laws and regulations or evolving interpretations and applications. It is unclear how the application of existing privacy laws and regulations will impact mobile services and technologies, which are evolving rapidly. Complying with these varying national requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business; the legislative and regulatory environment around mobile data collection continues to evolve. Legislators and regulators in various jurisdictions are increasingly focusing on the capture and use of location-based information relating to users of mobile devices.  Any legislation or regulations restricting or limiting the collection or use of mobile data (including the type of information that may be collected from mobile devices and/or how such information may be collected and used) could, if enacted, prohibit the use of certain technologies, including those that track individuals’ activities on the Internet or geolocation via mobile devices, and/or restrict or limit our ability to collect and use page viewing data and personal information, which may reduce demand for our services or require changes to our current business models, such as advertising, which could harm our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with new mobile regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations pertaining to mobile data collection or mobile devices could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action privacy litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. In addition, even technical violations of certain privacy-related laws can result in significant penalties, including statutory damages. For example, the Federal Communications Commission amended its regulations effective July 2012 under the TCPA, and has promulgated additional amendments, effective October 2013, which could increase our exposure to liability for certain types of telephonic communication with customers, including but not limited to text messages to mobile phones. Under the TCPA, plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. Two putative class-action lawsuits have been filed containing allegations that our businesses violated the TCPA. Roberts v. PayPal (filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in February 2012) contains allegations that commercial advertisements for PayPal products and services were sent via text message to mobile phones without prior consent. In May 2013, the Court granted PayPal’s motion for summary judgment challenging the viability of plaintiff’s individual claim on grounds that plaintiff consented to receive the text message and entered judgment in favor of PayPal. Plaintiff has filed an appeal of this judgment. Murray v. Bill Me Later (filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in June 2012) contains allegations that Bill Me Later made calls featuring artificial or prerecorded voices without prior consent. These lawsuits, and other private lawsuits not currently alleged as class actions, seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. Given the enormous number of communications we send to our users, a determination that there have been violations of laws relating to PayPal’s or Bill Me Later’s practices (or those of any of our other companies) under the TCPA or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. We have, and post on our websites, our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations (or, in the case of our Enterprise business, any such failure or perceived failure on the part of our Enterprise business or its clients) could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action privacy litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. The FTC and state regulatory agencies have become more aggressive in enforcing privacy and data protection laws and regulations. For example, in 2012, the FTC entered into a number of consent decrees with a number of major online companies other than us, including Facebook and Google, to settle allegations of unfair or deceptive privacy practices. The FTC’s consent decrees with Facebook and Google require each of those companies to implement a comprehensive privacy program and undergo regular, independent privacy audits for 20 years, among other requirements. Certain of our products, including some of Enterprise’s marketing solutions, utilize “behavioral marketing” (generally, the tracking of a user’s online activities) to deliver relevant content to Internet users. In March 2012, the FTC issued a report titled “Protecting Consumer Privacy in an Era of Rapid Change: Recommendations for Businesses and Policymakers,” which details the FTC’s perspective on best practices for companies that collect and use consumer data to protect the privacy of consumers. Should the FTC pursue enforcement actions related to these business practices, we may be required to modify our business practices to conform and incur substantial costs, which could harm our business. Data collection, privacy and security have become the subject of increasing public concern. If Internet and mobile users were to reduce their use of our websites, mobile platforms, products and services as a result, our business could be harmed. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Our credit operations expose us to additional risks. Risks associated with our reliance on unaffiliated lenders in providing the Bill Me Later service are discussed in more detail under the caption “Bill Me Later’s operations depend on lending services provided by unaffiliated lenders” above. The Bill Me Later service relies on third-party merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. For the year ended December 31, 2013 and the six months ended June 30, 2014, approximately 59% and 58%, respectively, of all transaction volume by dollar amount through the Bill Me Later service was settled through the facilities of a single vendor. Any disruption to these third party payment processing and gateway services would adversely affect the Bill Me Later service. The Bill Me Later service is offered to a wide range of consumers, and the financial success of this business depends on the ability of the issuing banks of the Bill Me Later credit products to manage credit risk related to those products. The lenders extend credit using Bill Me Later’s proprietary segmentation and credit scoring algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific customers based on their past purchasing and payment history as well as their credit scores. Based on these performance criteria, a lender may extend or increase lines of credit to consumers at the point of sale. These algorithms and techniques may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer due to inaccurate assumptions about a particular consumer or the economic environment, among other factors. The accuracy of the predictions and the ability of the lenders and Bill Me Later to manage credit risk related to the Bill Me Later service may also be affected by legal or regulatory changes (e.g., bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations), competitors’ actions, changes in consumer behavior and other factors. A lender may incorrectly interpret the data produced by these algorithms in setting its credit policies, which may impact the financial performance of the Bill Me Later service. In addition, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. may affect consumer confidence levels and reduce consumers’ ability or willingness to use credit, including the credit extended by a lender to consumers who use the Bill Me Later service, which could impair the growth and profitability of this business. Over the past several years, the volume of credit extended by the financial institutions issuing the Bill Me Later credit products has increased as we have continued to enable qualified buyers with a PayPal account to use Bill Me Later as a payment funding option for transactions on eBay.com and on certain merchant websites that accept PayPal. We purchase the receivables relating to these consumer loans extended by the issuing banks, and therefore bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer credit, the Bill Me Later service faces the risk that account holders will default on their payment obligations with respect to the consumer loans, making the receivables uncollectible and creating the risk of potential charge-offs. The rate at which receivables were charged off as uncollectible, or the net charge-off rate, was approximately 5.67% and 5.49%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2013 and the six months ended June 30, 2014. The nonpayment rate among Bill Me Later users may increase due to, among other things, changes to underwriting standards by the financial institutions issuing the Bill Me Later credit products, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or greater austerity in the U.S., and high unemployment rates. Consumers who miss payments on their obligations often fail to repay them, and consumers who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their credit. In 2013, PayPal began a pilot program, working with WebBank, for WebBank to offer working capital financing to selected sellers in the U.S., and for PayPal to purchase the related receivables. This program is still in the pilot phase; if expanded, or if we enter into similar credit based products offered to consumers or small businesses, this would present risks similar to those discussed above associated with the Bill Me Later service. PayPal has also recently entered into an extended program agreement with Synchrony (formerly GE Capital Retail Bank) pursuant to which PayPal, one of its affiliates or a third party partner of PayPal will, subject to certain conditions, purchase a dual branded retail credit card portfolio from Synchrony with PayPal ultimately owning the related receivables. This transaction is currently expected to close in the fourth quarter of 2016, although there can be no assurance that this transaction will close on terms currently contemplated, or at all. If this transaction is consummated, it will increase the risks relating to our ownership of consumer loan receivables. We purchase receivables related to Bill Me Later and other credit accounts through borrowings and cash resources. If we are unable to fund our purchase of receivables related to the credit business adequately or in a cost-effective manner, or if we are unable to efficiently manage the cash resources utilized to purchase the receivables, the growth and profitability of this business would be significantly and adversely affected. Additionally, in providing credit offerings, we face other risks similar to those faced by PayPal described elsewhere in these Risk Factors, including under the captions “Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties,” “Our Payments business is subject to a number of laws and regulations, including those governing banking, cross-border and domestic money transmission, foreign exchange and payment services that vary in the markets where we operate,” and “Our Payments business is subject to consumer protection laws and regulations.” Our revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our control. We derive significant revenue from advertising on our websites and applications. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such as general changes in the economy and changes in consumer spending, the effectiveness of online advertising versus offline advertising media and the value our websites provide to advertisers relative to other websites. The economic downturn adversely impacted our advertising revenue. The shift from online to mobile has also adversely impacted our advertising revenue. In addition, major search engine and advertising services operators (e.g., Google) have the ability to change from time to time, at their sole discretion, the rules, search algorithms and other terms governing the pricing, availability and placement of online advertising, and do so periodically. For example, changes by Google have significantly reduced the amount of traffic our Marketplaces business receives from free search on Google. Any further changes in these rules, search algorithms or other terms could materially reduce the value that we derive from Internet marketing or online advertising on our websites, either directly or indirectly. In addition, legislators and regulators in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. and the EU, are reviewing Internet advertising models and the use of user-related data, including location-based information relating to users of mobile devices, and are considering proposals that could restrict or otherwise impact these business models and practices. If we experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to economic, competitive, regulatory, technological or other factors, the renegotiation, on balance, of our contracts with major advertising companies on unfavorable terms, or a reduction in our ability to effectively place advertisements on our websites, or are otherwise unable to provide value to our advertisers, our business and financial results would suffer. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require a continued focus on active marketing efforts across all of our brands. We will need to continue to spend substantial amounts of money on, and devote substantial resources to, advertising, marketing and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Since 2005, we have significantly increased the number of brands we are supporting, adding our classified websites (including Den Blå Avis, BilBasen, eBay Classifieds (including eBay Anuncios, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), GittiGidiyor, Gumtree, Kijiji, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl, mobile.de, alaMaula and 2dehands.be), StubHub, Bill Me Later, Gmarket, RedLaser, Venmo, Braintree and Enterprise, among others. Each of these brands requires its own resources, increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. Also, major search engine operators that we use to advertise our brands have frequently changed their rules that govern the pricing, availability and placement of online advertisements (e.g., paid search, keywords), and changes to these rules could require us to increase our spending on online advertisements and adversely affect our ability to use online advertising to promote our brands in a cost-effective manner. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business and financial results would suffer. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, consumer protection, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity and personal privacy apply to our businesses. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet, mobile and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the U.S. “CAN-SPAM” Act and the EU’s new Consumer Rights Directive (which replaced the Distance Selling Directive) and Electronic Commerce Directive are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. As our activities, the types of goods and services listed on our websites and mobile platforms, the products and services we offer (including through acquisitions such as GSI, Bill Me Later, Braintree, Venmo and StubHub) and our geographical scope continue to expand, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to additional requirements (including licensure) or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions (e.g., the sale of real estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats and automobiles or the application of distance selling laws). Recent financial and political events have increased the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies in general, and financial services companies in particular, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our businesses. Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing businesses that perceive our business models to be a threat to their businesses to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators. These businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. In particular, these established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. Any changes to the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, where our headquarters are located, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted to impose such regulations upon us or our users, and others may attempt to do so in the future. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing. In France, we were sued by Conseil des Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority, which has alleged that sales on our French website constitute illegal auctions that cannot be performed without its consent. We won this lawsuit. A lawsuit alleging similar claims has been brought against us by two associations of French antique dealers, and is now pending on appeal after we won in the first instance. We intend to defend vigorously against these lawsuits. However, these and other regulatory and licensure claims and enforcement actions could result in costly litigation and, if unsuccessful, we could be required to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues (for example, by forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items or restrict certain listing formats in some locations). We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we may become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, in the Louis Vuitton Malletier litigation, we were found liable in France, under French law, for transactions on some of our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers or sellers (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above). Laws regulating Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the U.S. are generally less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, competitors, users and other third parties. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on us or our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us (e.g., in cross-border trade). Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. Following the global financial crisis, U.S. federal lawmakers enacted the Dodd-Frank Act overhauling the federal government’s oversight of consumer financial products and systemic risk in the U.S. financial system.  Although the full effect of the new legislation will be dependent on regulations to be adopted by a number of different agencies (including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau), the general effect of the financial reform law has been, and we expect will continue to be, to require PayPal and Bill Me Later to make additional disclosures to their users and to impose new restrictions on certain of their activities.  For example, in January 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau finalized new regulations, required by the Dodd-Frank Act that required PayPal, starting in late October 2013, to provide additional disclosures, error resolution rights and cancellation rights to U.S. consumers who make international remittance payments, which could increase our costs of processing international payments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau also launched a complaints portal on its website that allows customers to file complaints against PayPal, Venmo and other money transfer service providers, and publishes information on such complaints. These and other new obligations will impose new compliance requirements and obligations on us that could increase our costs, may result in increased litigation and the need to make expensive product changes and may otherwise adversely impact our business. In addition, we also expect that the continued implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will adversely impact some significant traditional revenue streams for banks. For example, in June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule capping debit card interchange fees. As a result of this and other regulations implementing the financial reform law, banks may need to revise their business models to remain profitable, which may lead them to charge more for services which were previously provided for free or at lower cost. Any resulting increases in service fees required for PayPal to process transactions (e.g., service fees for automated clearing house transactions) would increase our costs and could adversely affect our business. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, governments are increasingly looking for ways to increase revenues, which has resulted in discussions about tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenues, including through indirect taxes. Some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of ecommerce. For example, the State of New York has passed legislation that requires any out-of-state seller of tangible personal property to collect and remit New York use tax if the seller engages affiliates above certain financial thresholds in New York to perform certain business promotion activities. California has enacted a similar law, but provides exclusions for certain forms of Internet marketing and is limited to retailers who exceed prescribed sales volume thresholds. Several other states have enacted similar laws or regulations, and a number of states are considering similar provisions. The adoption of such legislation by states where eBay has significant operations that perform certain business promotion activities could result in a use tax collection responsibility for certain of our sellers. This collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements would make selling on our websites and mobile platforms less attractive for small business retailers, and would harm our business. The State of Colorado has enacted legislation that takes a different approach by imposing a set of use tax notice and reporting requirements (but not the actual tax collection responsibility) on certain retailers with no physical presence in Colorado. The law is designed to aid Colorado in collecting use tax from Colorado residents who purchase taxable items from out-of-state retailers. The regulation promulgated by the Colorado Department of Revenue excludes from these reporting obligations businesses that sell $100,000 or less into the state in a calendar year, thus limiting the impact on our sellers. The law has been challenged in Federal Court by a number of out-of-state retailers and a Federal District Court has issued an injunction blocking enforcement of the regulations pending a resolution of the case. Although in March 2012, a Federal District Court struck down the Colorado law as unconstitutional, the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals ordered the District Court to dismiss the case on other grounds. The retailers continue to pursue their case in Colorado courts and in February 2014, the Denver District Court issued a preliminary injunction that prohibits the Colorado Department of Revenue from enforcing the use tax notice and reporting requirements pending further orders from the court. In June 2014, at the request of retailers, the U.S. Supreme Court granted certiorari to hear the case that was dismissed by the Tenth Circuit Court of Appeals (Direct Marketing Association v. Barbara Brohl, Executive Director, Colorado Department of Revenue, No. 13-1032). Oklahoma and several other states have enacted similar laws but have not taken any published enforcement action to date. While the application of these new state laws to our Marketplaces business has limited direct impact, the proliferation of such state legislation to expand sales and use tax collection on Internet sales, could adversely affect some of our sellers and indirectly harm our business. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project- an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state and local governments to require collection and remittance of remote sales tax by out-of-state sellers-U.S. Senate and U.S. House versions of the Marketplace Fairness Act (S. 336 and H.R. 684) were introduced in the 113th Congress in 2013. The U.S. Senate passed S. 336 on May 6, 2013 with bipartisan support and H.R. 684 has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee for review, which held hearings on the bill in March 2014. If enacted into law, these measures would allow states that meet certain simplification and other standards to require out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. It is expected that some sellers, meeting an as yet undefined small seller exception, would be excluded from the requirements of the Act. The adoption of remote sales tax collection legislation that lacks a robust small business exemption would result in the imposition of sales taxes and additional costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on many of our sellers. This would make selling online less attractive for small retailers, and would likely harm our business. From time to time, some taxing authorities in the U.S. have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes imposed on eBay’s or its affiliates’ services. These notifications have not resulted in any significant tax liabilities to date, but there is a risk that some jurisdiction may be successful in the future, which would harm our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local levels that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. The U.S. federal government’s moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce has been extended through November 2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. New legislation (H.R. 3086) has been introduced that would make the moratorium permanent; however, it is not clear that it will be enacted prior to the expiration of the current moratorium. Similar issues exist outside of the U.S., where the application of VAT or other indirect taxes on ecommerce providers such as eBay is uncertain and evolving. While we attempt to comply in those jurisdictions where it is clear that a tax is due, certain of our subsidiaries have, from time to time, received claims relating to the applicability of indirect taxes to our fees.  We currently pay VAT on fees charged to certain of our users in the EU based on the service provider’s location. Effective January 1, 2015, changes to the rules determining the place of supply (and thus the country of taxation) for all EU based providers of electronically supplied services will require that we pay VAT based on the residence or normal place of business of our customers. These changes may result in our paying a higher rate of VAT on such fees. We collect and remit indirect taxes in certain jurisdictions. However, tax authorities may raise questions about our obligation to collect and remit such taxes, as well as the proper calculation of such taxes. For example, the Korean tax authority asserted that certain coupons and incentives available on our sites should not be deducted when computing taxes on our fees. We challenged these assessments and in June 2012, the National Tax Tribunal issued a final ruling in our favor with respect to item incentives from June 2006 onward. The assessments on item incentives up to May 2006 and coupons up to June 2010 are being reviewed by the Korea Supreme Court following two lower courts’ rulings in our favor in January and November 2013. Should any new taxes become applicable to our fees or if the taxes we pay are found to be deficient, our business could be harmed. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. One or more states or the federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been contemplated by several states and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if an eBay company was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which eBay operates. In July 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221) was signed into law. This law contains provisions that require companies that provide payments over electronic means to users to report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) information on payments received by certain customers. The legislation, effective for payments received after December 31, 2010, requires PayPal and other electronic payments processors, as well as StubHub and similar companies, to report to the IRS on customers subject to U.S. income tax who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a calendar year. As a result, PayPal is required to request tax ID numbers from certain payees, track payments by tax ID number and, under certain conditions, withhold a portion of payments and forward such withholding to the IRS. We have modified our software to meet these requirements and expect increased operational costs and changes to our user experience in connection with complying with these reporting obligations. The IRS regulations also require us to collect a certification of non-U.S. taxpayer status from certain international merchants. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which took effect at the start of 2013, is likely to require an increase in the number of non-U.S. customers from whom we must obtain a similar certification, and to increase the compliance burdens on us. These requirements may decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. Any failure by us to meet these new requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. One or more other jurisdictions may also seek to impose tax collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Imposition of a discriminatory record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Foreign authorities may also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify our obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting requirements could harm our users and our business. There has been an increased interest by certain governing and regulatory bodies as well as the international press, especially in Europe, in the tax affairs of multinational and ecommerce companies. While this increased scrutiny has not resulted in any changes in the way taxes are imposed, it could lead to changes in laws or critical investigations of our operations and structure in the future. This could lead to additional tax costs and harm our business. PayPal’s retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks. PayPal has announced several retail point of sale solutions to accept payment, such as the PayPal Here devices, which enable merchants to use a card reader attached to a mobile device or to scan cards and checks using the mobile device’s embedded camera, and the Beacon device, which will enable customers that enable the capability on their mobile phones to pay hands-free. PayPal continues to build and improve its suite of in-store products and services, which have been rolled out to certain retailers in the U.S. and Europe. As PayPal continues to expand its product and service offerings at the retail point of sale, we will face additional risks, including: increased expectations from offline retailers regarding the reliability and availability of its systems and services and correspondingly lower amounts of downtime, which PayPal may not be able to meet; increased targeting by fraudsters, and given that our fraud models are less developed in this area, we may experience increases in fraud and associated transaction losses as we adjust to fraudulent activity at the point of sale: exposure to product liability claims, resulting from hardware products (e.g., our PayPal Here and Beacon devices) produced for use at the retail point of sale, which could result in substantial liability and require product recalls or other actions; exposure to new or additional laws and regulations (e.g., export control regulations related to the shipment of the PayPal Here and Beacon devices across national borders); increased reliance on third parties involved with processing in-store payments, including independent software providers, electronic point of sale providers, hardware providers, such as cash register and pin-pad providers, payment processors and banks that enable in store transactions; significant competition at the retail point of sale; and lower profit margins than PayPal’s other payment solutions. Unless we are able to successfully manage these risks, including driving adoption of, and significant volume through, our retail point of sale solutions over time, our business may suffer. Changes in PayPal’s funding mix could adversely affect PayPal’s results. PayPal pays significant transaction fees when customers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when customers fund payments with debit cards, nominal fees when customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts and no fees when customers fund payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or through the Bill Me Later service. Customers fund a significant portion of PayPal’s payment volume using credit and debit cards, and PayPal’s financial success is highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its customers fund payments using credit and debit cards. Customers may prefer funding payment transactions using credit cards or debit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of reasons, including the ability to dispute and reverse charges directly with their payment card provider if merchandise is not delivered or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles, cash rebates or other incentives offered by payment card issuers, the ability to defer payment or a reluctance to provide bank account information to PayPal. In addition, some of PayPal’s offerings, including the ability for buyers to make a limited number of “guest” payments without opening a PayPal account, have a higher rate of payment card funding than PayPal’s basic product offering. Further, some of PayPal’s plans to lower its funding costs, including both the Bill Me Later credit products and service and the ability for buyers to defer payment for a short period of time on some transactions, may increase the risk to PayPal of nonpayment by buyers. If we experience an increase in fees associated with our funding mix or in losses associated with nonpayment by buyers, our business and financial results could suffer. PayPal’s failure to manage customer funds properly could harm its business. PayPal’s ability to manage and account accurately for customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and limited experience in managing these internal controls. As PayPal’s business continues to grow, it must continue to strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal’s success requires significant public confidence in its ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to manage customer funds accurately could severely diminish customer use of PayPal’s products and/or result in penalties and fines, which could have an adverse effect on our business and financial results. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services will reduce our current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and profits and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to 22 hours. In August 2013, technical issues affected several of our websites resulting in intermittent outages over a period of just over six hours, and in April 2012, technical systems issues resulted in eBay.com users being unable to checkout on our sites for a period of several hours. Our PayPal website has suffered intermittent unavailability for periods as long as five days, including unavailability for approximately three hours affecting payments primarily on our ebay.co.uk site in May 2011. Other of our websites (e.g., StubHub and others), as well as websites of Enterprise clients and hosted services offered by our Enterprise business, have experienced intermittent unavailability from time to time. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues, as well as potential service credits or other payments by our Enterprise business to its clients. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical for PayPal, which faces increased expectations on the part of users and merchants regarding the full-time availability of PayPal’s services as it seeks to expand its Merchant Services business and gain acceptance of its retail point of sale solutions. Because PayPal is a regulated financial institution, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to significant fines and penalties, or mandatory and costly changes to PayPal’s business practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because many of our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers and their businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, cyber-attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, human error, hardware or software defects or malfunctions (including defects or malfunctions of components of our systems that are supplied by third-party service providers), and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems, including our Shopping.com websites and the systems related to the Bill Me Later business, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning may not be sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions and delays, and result in loss of critical data and lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. If we are unable to cost-effectively upgrade and expand our websites, services and platforms, our business would suffer. We must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our websites and platforms, and the new products and features we regularly introduce. As our PayPal business continues to grow and expand both in terms of geographies and product offerings (e.g., PayPal’s retail point of sale solutions and credit offerings), we are focused on updating our PayPal platform to provide increased scale, improved performance and additional built-in functionality addressing regulatory compliance matters (e.g., anti-money laundering and terrorist financing). This upgrade process, driven in part by the increased competitive pressure that our businesses face, is expensive and time-consuming, and the increased complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology, features, transaction processing systems, security infrastructure or network infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume or changes to our site functionality could result in adverse consequences, including unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer support, impaired quality of users’ experiences of our services, impaired quality of services for third-party application developers using our externally accessible application programming interfaces and delays in reporting accurate financial information, and could result in customer dissatisfaction and the loss of existing users on our websites. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do so could result in problems on our websites. Further, steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, could reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. Risks associated with our Enterprise business’ efforts to enhance its marketing solutions platform and migrate existing Enterprise clients to its new marketing solutions platform are discussed in greater detail under the caption “Our Enterprise business exposes us to additional risks” below. There are many risks associated with our international operations. Our international expansion has been rapid and our international business, especially in Germany, the U.K. and Korea, has also become critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 52% and 53% of our net revenues for the year ended December 31, 2013 and the six months ended June 30, 2014, respectively. Expansion into international markets, such as our entry into Turkey in May 2011 upon the completion of our acquisition of additional shares in GittiGidiyor, and Marketplaces’ and PayPal’s entry into emerging markets, is an increasing focus of our business. Geographical expansion requires significant management attention and resources and requires us to localize our services to conform to local cultures, laws, regulations, standards, policies and practices. The commercial, financial, Internet and transportation infrastructure in developing countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our business models. For example, the Russian government has recently imposed new regulations that will require local transaction processing by payment service providers. Some of these developing countries may have legal regimes in which the application of laws and regulations in the online or mobile context is subject to greater uncertainty, as well as a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent or unethical business practices, than countries in which we are historically accustomed to operating. In many countries, we compete with local companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. In 2007, we contributed our business in China to a joint venture with a local Chinese company; we terminated this joint venture in 2012. Even if we are successful in developing new markets, we often expect the costs of operating new sites to exceed our net revenues from those sites for at least 12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand our businesses internationally, including through acquisitions and joint ventures, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: strong local competitors; legal and regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet and mobile services, auctioneering, professional selling, distance selling, privacy and data protection, banking and money transmitting and foreign corrupt practices and anti-bribery, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain categories of goods, require product or service changes, require special licensure, subject us to criminal sanctions and/or various taxes, penalties or audits or limit the transfer of information between us and our affiliates; customs and duties, including the possibility of cumbersome shipping and delivery logistics, significant delays at the border due to customs inspections, maximum limits on the number of cross-border imports by consumers, and the possibility that our services may be viewed as facilitating customs fraud by governmental authorities; greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings and other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a result of unique local laws, conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; risks associated with cross-border transactions, including those described under the caption “Any factors that reduce cross-border trade could harm our business,” above; potentially higher incidence of fraud and corruption and higher credit and transaction loss risks cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, trading or payments over the Internet or through mobile devices; laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses; difficulties in integrating with local payment providers, including banks, credit and debit card networks and electronic fund transfer systems; differing levels of retail distribution, shipping and Internet and mobile infrastructures; different employee/employer relationships and labor laws, and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; challenges associated with joint venture relationships and minority investments, including dependence on joint venture partners, controlling shareholders or management who may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours; difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; longer payment cycles, different accounting practices and greater problems in collecting accounts receivable; potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation of our fees or of transactions on our websites; higher Internet service provider or mobile network operator costs; differing intellectual property laws; seasonal reductions in business activity; expenses associated with localizing our products and services, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; our ability to repatriate funds from abroad without adverse tax consequences; the possibility that foreign governments may impose currency controls or other restrictions on the repatriation of funds; changes in the business practices of the card networks or participating banks (e.g., dynamic currency conversion); disturbances in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or military conditions, including potential sanctions (e.g., recent significant civil, political and economic disturbances in Russia, Ukraine and the Crimean peninsula); and challenges associated with maintaining relationships with local law enforcement and related agencies. These factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. To the extent that we continue to expand our international operations and a larger portion of our international revenues is denominated in foreign currencies, we are also subject to increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and repatriating money without adverse tax consequences, as well as increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on our business is discussed above in more detail under the caption “We are exposed to fluctuations in foreign currency exchange rates and interest rates.” Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act, other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials and antitrust and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us and/or our directors, officers or employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brands, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors or agents will not violate our policies. In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product development, customer support and other operations, in regions outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which reduce the anticipated benefits associated with providing these functions outside of the U.S., including cost efficiencies and productivity improvements, could adversely affect our business. We maintain a portion of our research and development facilities and personnel in Israel, and have acquired other Israeli companies. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect those operations. Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed hostilities between Israel and neighboring countries or other entities could make it more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of employees due to military service, which could adversely affect our business. Sanctions imposed by the U.S. government on Russia, and Russian banks, in response to Russia’s annexation of the Crimean peninsula, may result in a series of regulatory changes for non-Russian payment services providers. Such changes may make it costly or difficult for us to continue operating our business in the Russian market. We also maintain facilities and personnel in Ukraine. The current situation in Ukraine and the Crimean peninsula along with the response of the Russian and United States governments to this situation, have the potential to adversely affect our operations in Ukraine. In addition, many of our employees in Ukraine could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances, which could disrupt our Magento business. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a significant number of businesses of varying size and scope, technologies, services and products. In December 2013, we acquired Braintree, which provides an online and mobile payments platform. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks. Some of the areas where we may face risks or difficulties include: the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is an inherently risky and potentially lengthy and costly process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented, and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise as a result; the potential loss of key customers, merchants, vendors and other key business partners (e.g., payment processors) of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of our acquisition plans; diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration, particularly given the number, size and varying scope of our recent acquisitions; declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects or the direction of the acquired business; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets and doing business internationally, including those described above under the caption “There are many risks associated with our international operations”; difficulties in entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; in the case of acquisitions involving foreign companies or operations, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular regulatory, economic, currency and political risks associated with specific countries or regions; in some cases, the need to build or enhance compliance programs and/or systems to comply with likely greater regulatory scrutiny; in some cases, the need to transition operations, users and customers of our existing businesses or the acquired business, as the case may be, onto different platforms; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; the potential loss of key employees following the acquisition; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure; and for investments in which an investee’s results of operations and financial condition are incorporated into our financial statements and operating metrics, either in full or in part, the dependence on the investee’s accounting, financial reporting, operating metrics and similar systems, controls and processes It may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits, such as increased revenue and volume, and enhanced efficiencies, of any or all of our acquisitions, and those benefits and/or enhanced efficiencies may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Future acquisitions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our financial results, results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. In addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and/or lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. In addition, our strategic investments may expose us to additional risks. For example, we have a minority interest in Intershop Communications AG, an entity governed by German law, which could subject us to liability for certain disadvantages to Intershop if we were deemed to be in control of Intershop under German law. Recently, a group of stockholders of Intershop made a stockholder proposal at the annual meeting, requiring Intershop to retain a third party evaluator to ensure that all transactions between Intershop and eBay Enterprise are at arm’s length. An unfavorable finding could require us to change our pricing or the manner in which we do business with Intershop or could require us to pay damages to Intershop. We have also been sued by craigslist, which has alleged that we improperly misused confidential information from craigslist that we received as a minority investor. The complaint alleges breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unfair competition and false advertising and seeks compensatory and punitive damages, rescission and other relief. Any circumstances, which may be out of our control, that adversely affect the value of our investments, or cost resulting from regulatory action or lawsuits in connection with our investments, could harm our business or negatively impact our financial results. Our Enterprise business exposes us to additional risks. Our Enterprise business (which consists of GSI Commerce, Inc. (GSI Commerce), which we acquired in June 2011), faces certain risks and challenges not shared by our other businesses, including those described under the caption “Changes in regulations, regulatory scrutiny or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business.” Competition for Enterprise’s existing and potential clients is intense, and our Enterprise business may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. For example, a change in the management of an Enterprise client could adversely affect our relationship with that client. In addition, many of Enterprise’s client contracts contain service level commitments. If our Enterprise business is unable to meet these commitments, its relationships with its clients could be damaged, and client rights to terminate their contracts with our Enterprise business and/or financial penalty provisions payable by our Enterprise business may be triggered. If any existing Enterprise clients (in particular, the large merchants and brands that our Enterprise business serves) were to exit the business we provide services to, be acquired, declare bankruptcy, suffer other financial difficulties, fail to pay amounts owed to our Enterprise business and/or terminate or modify their relationships with our Enterprise business in an unfavorable manner, our Enterprise business could be adversely affected. A portion of Enterprise’s net transaction revenue is derived from the value of ecommerce transactions that flow through its suite of commerce technologies. Accordingly, growth in Enterprise’s net transaction revenue depends upon the continued growth of the online businesses of its clients. Our Enterprise business may be substantially impacted by any adverse conditions in the offline businesses of an Enterprise client that negatively impact that client’s online businesses. Any impairment of the offline business of Enterprise clients, whether due to financial difficulties, impairment of client brands, reduction in marketing efforts, reduction in the number of client retail stores or otherwise, could negatively affect consumer traffic and sales through Enterprise clients’ websites, which would result in lower revenues generated by our Enterprise business. Our Enterprise business also relies on its clients’ ability to accurately forecast product demand and select and buy the inventory for their corresponding online businesses. Under such arrangements, the client establishes product prices and pays our Enterprise business fees based either on a fixed or variable percentage of revenues, or on the activity performed. As a result, if Enterprise clients fail to accurately forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, the client’s ecommerce business (and, in turn, our Enterprise fees) could be adversely affected. Our Enterprise business holds some inventory on behalf of its clients. If our Enterprise business is unable to effectively manage and handle this inventory, this may result in unexpected costs that could adversely affect our Enterprise business. Any theft of such inventory, or damage or interruption to such inventory, including as a result of earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fire, power loss, labor disputes, terrorist attacks and similar events and disruptions, could result in losses related to such inventory and disruptions to the businesses of Enterprise clients, which could in turn adversely affect our Enterprise business. While we have insurance coverage to protect against such losses, the coverage may be inadequate to cover all losses. Our Enterprise business processes personal information on behalf of its clients. The personal information of customers of certain websites operated by Enterprise clients may be regulated under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Children’s Online Privacy Protection Act or other privacy laws and regulations. In some cases, Enterprise’s use or disclosure of that information may be restricted by contractual terms, laws and regulations, and any misuse or unpermitted disclosure of that information could negatively impact our Enterprise business and its clients. Our Enterprise business is in the process of enhancing its marketing solutions platform and plans to migrate existing clients to its new marketing solutions platform. Our Enterprise business could be negatively impacted if this project is delayed, the functionality of the new marketing solutions platform is not accepted by existing or new clients, or the new marketing solutions platform does not operate as expected. Our Enterprise business utilizes email marketing to drive consumer traffic to the websites operated by some of its clients. Email could become a less effective means of communicating with and marketing to consumers for a variety of reasons, including: problems with technology that make Enterprise’s email communications more difficult to deliver and for consumers to read (e.g., the inability of mobile devices to adequately display email); consumers may disregard marketing emails due to the large volume of such emails they receive; the inability of filters to effectively screen for unwanted emails, resulting in increased levels of junk mail, or “SPAM,” which may overwhelm consumers’ email accounts; increased use of social networking sites, which may result in decreased use of email as a primary means of communication; continued security concerns regarding Internet usage in general from viruses, worms or similar problems; and increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by Internet service providers that make it more difficult or costly to utilize email for marketing communications. If any of our Enterprise entities were to end up on SPAM lists or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited emails, their ability to contact customers through email could be significantly restricted. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the demand for Enterprise email marketing solutions could decrease and our Enterprise business could be harmed. Our Enterprise business also utilizes mobile messaging as a means of communicating with consumers, which carries risks similar to those described above for email marketing. Our Enterprise business has relationships with search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers, online advertising networks and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links to its clients’ ecommerce businesses and our Enterprise business relies on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to its clients’ ecommerce businesses. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. eBay and our Enterprise business are party to certain acquisition agreements relating to entities purchased by GSI Commerce prior to our acquisition of GSI Commerce, and which relate to businesses owned by the entities that we have divested. Kynetic LLC (Kynetic) has agreed to indemnify our Enterprise business for certain liabilities incurred by GSI Commerce under these acquisition agreements including those involved in a dispute which was brought to trial between RueLaLa shareholders, eBay, our Enterprise business and Kynetic. The jury in that matter found against the RueLaLa shareholders on all counts. However, if liabilities are realized in other matters that were not covered by the indemnification provisions or Kynetic was not able or willing to meet its indemnification obligations, our Enterprise business would be liable for them and its business could be harmed. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have anti-scalping laws and regulations covering the resale of event tickets. Some jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices above the face value of the tickets or at all, or highly regulate the resale of tickets, and new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions may be adopted that could limit or inhibit our ability to operate, or our users’ ability to continue to use, our tickets business. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions. In October 2007, two plaintiffs filed a purported class action lawsuit in North Carolina Superior Court alleging that StubHub sold (and facilitated and participated in the sale) of concert tickets to plaintiffs with the knowledge that the tickets were resold in violation of North Carolina’s maximum ticket resale price law (which has been subsequently amended). In February 2011, the trial court granted plaintiffs’ motion for summary judgment, concluding that immunity under the Communications Decency Act did not apply. The trial court further held that StubHub violated the North Carolina unfair and deceptive trade practices statute as it pertained to the two named plaintiffs, and certified its decision for immediate appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals. In February 2012, the North Carolina Court of Appeals overturned the lower court’s decision, and the Court of Appeals’ decision is now final. However, similar actions are expected in other states and other jurisdictions, such as Ontario. Laws and regulations governing the resale of event tickets outside the U.S. (for example, in Europe) may be more restrictive, and carry harsher penalties and fines, than corresponding U.S. laws and regulations. For example, France passed a law in 2012 prohibiting the habitual resale of event tickets without permission from the event organizer and Belgium passed a similar law in 2013 prohibiting habitual sale and subjecting occasional resale to a price cap. Restrictions on ticket resale are also under consideration by the Dutch Parliament and various state governments in Australia. In addition, the unauthorized resale of football (soccer) tickets is illegal in the U.K., where a StubHub site was launched in 2011. While we have secured a number of commercial partnerships in the UK in order to enable our customers to buy and sell football (soccer) tickets, if we are unable to maintain these partnerships or develop new partnerships on acceptable terms, our tickets business would suffer. Some event organizers and professional sports teams have expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our sites. Lawsuits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such lawsuits could result in damage awards, could require us to change our business practices in ways that may be harmful to our business or could otherwise negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. The economic downturn resulted in a decrease in ticket prices sold on our sites and negatively impacted revenue and profits. In addition, a work stoppage, strike or lockout by a professional sports league (for example, the National Hockey League lockout that ended in January 2013) that results in the cancellation of all or a portion of the games in a league’s season would harm our tickets business. In addition, a portion of the tickets inventory sold by sellers on the StubHub website is processed by StubHub in digital form. Systems failures, security breaches, including data breaches due to employee error, theft or other disruptions that result in the loss of such sellers’ tickets inventory could materially harm our tickets business. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies (such as Live Nation Entertainment/Ticketmaster, Comcast-Spectacor and Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports teams and leagues), ticket brokers and online and offline ticket resellers, such as TicketsNow (which is owned by Live Nation Entertainment), VividSeats and RazorGator. In addition, some ticketing service companies and event organizers have begun to issue event tickets through various forms of electronic ticketing systems that are designed to restrict or prohibit the free transferability (and by extension, the free resale) of such event tickets either to favor their own resale affiliates or to discourage resale. In addition, some professional sports teams and industry partners have imposed resale conditions limiting or prohibiting the resale of sporting event tickets. Similarly, some professional sports teams have begun to introduce measures that may have the effect of discouraging season ticket holders from listing their tickets for sale through third party platforms (such as the StubHub website) that compete with the teams’ own or preferred secondary ticketing services. Such measures include making PDF versions of tickets available only for a limited period of time, and imposing fees on season ticket holders to obtain PDF versions of their tickets. PDF versions of tickets are one of the most popular formats for ticket listings on the StubHub website. As a result, to the extent that such measures result in our customers’ inability or unwillingness to list tickets for sale on the StubHub website, our tickets business would be harmed. Ticketing service companies have also begun to use market-based pricing strategies or dynamic pricing to charge much higher prices than they historically have for premium tickets. Besides charging higher prices, these ticketing service companies have also imposed additional restrictions on transferability for these types of tickets, such as requiring customers to pick up these tickets at will-call with the purchasing credit card. To the extent that event tickets issued in this manner cannot be resold on our websites, or to the extent that we are otherwise unable to effectively compete with these competitors, our tickets business would be harmed. Pursuant to commercial arrangements with certain of its partners, StubHub provides some of its sellers with the ability to conduct integrated resale transactions, which consumers may prefer due to, among other factors, quicker delivery and lower fraud concerns. These integrations are largely deal-dependent, and these arrangements may not be renewed on favorable terms, or at all. Our StubHub business receives funds directly from buyers for tickets purchased from sellers, and subsequently pays the sellers upon shipment of the tickets. StubHub recently received a license in Luxembourg for intermediation of payments for transactions on websites located in the EU. Intermediation of transactions between buyers and sellers could potentially subject StubHub to licensure requirements, laws and regulatory oversight in other jurisdictions, which may increase our costs and harm our tickets business. We depend on key personnel. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including key engineering and product development personnel, and our ability to attract, retain and motivate key personnel. Competition for key personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley where our corporate headquarters are located, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate or retain sufficiently qualified key personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to attract, retain and motivate employees. In addition, we do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies. Further, some members of our senior management team have fully vested the majority of their in-the-money equity incentives. The loss of the services of any of our senior management or other key personnel, or our inability to attract key personnel, could harm our business. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our users could harm our business. A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our users list items, caching services that make our sites load faster and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial interest in their success, while in other cases we have none. PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that link PayPal to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions. As described under the caption “Changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules or practices could harm our Payments business,” PayPal is subject to, among other things, increases in interchange fees and assessments that payment card networks such as Visa and MasterCard charge for each transaction using one of their cards (which PayPal’s payment card processors have the right to pass on to PayPal), as well as changes in payment card network operating rules, including special operating rules for Internet payment services (with which PayPal is required by its payment card processors to comply). Similarly, Bill Me Later relies on unaffiliated lenders in providing the Bill Me Later service and also relies heavily on third parties to operate its services, including merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. In addition, our Enterprise business utilizes unaffiliated payment processing companies to process transactions on the websites operated by Enterprise clients, third parties to provide underlying components of its ecommerce platform, third party carriers to ship packages to customers of Enterprise clients and third parties in its operations business to perform services during peak order volume periods. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes, lockouts or work stoppages) or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our users could reduce the number of listings on our sites, make it more difficult for users to complete transactions on our websites and mobile platforms or adversely affect Enterprise’s ability to timely fulfill and ship products sold on the websites operated by its clients, which would harm our business. Price increases by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that provide services to our users and clients (such as postal and delivery services, as well as our global shipping platform intended to facilitate cross-border transactions between buyers and sellers) could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our sellers to complete transactions or for us to timely fulfill and ship products sold on the websites operated by Enterprise clients, thereby harming our business. Some third parties who provide services to us may have or gain market power and be able to increase their prices to us without competitive constraint. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service, which is facing ongoing fiscal challenges, has instituted postal rate increases and announced that it is considering closing thousands of local post offices and ending Saturday mail delivery. While we continue to work with global carriers to offer our sellers a variety of shipping options and to enhance our shipping experience, postal rate increases may reduce the competitiveness of certain sellers’ offerings, and postal service changes could require certain sellers to utilize alternatives which could be more expensive or inconvenient, which could in turn decrease the velocity of trade on our site, thereby harming our business. For example, we believe that increases in international postal rates by the U.S. Postal Service may have reduced cross-border trade by U.S. sellers. Any security breach at a company providing services to our users could also adversely affect our customers and harm our business. We have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including some customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our velocity of trade, business, reputation and operating results. Although we generally have been able to renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with, or if necessary replace, third parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy due to poor economic conditions, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to our users will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Breaches of privacy and security, fraud and measures that we sometimes take to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our websites by making our websites more difficult to use or restricting the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant personnel expense, and if not managed properly, this expense could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage or train our own or outsourced customer support representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. Negative publicity about, or negative experiences with, customer support for any of our businesses could cause our reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in our brands individually or as a whole. Because PayPal is providing a financial service and operating in a more regulated environment, PayPal must provide both telephone and email customer support and resolve certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of PayPal’s program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, PayPal may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer’s account activity are identified by PayPal’s risk models as suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity with respect to its customer support and account restrictions, and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things, failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. PayPal, Inc.; and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations that PayPal improperly held users’ funds or otherwise improperly limited users’ accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal’s practices among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to PayPal’s practices could expose PayPal to significant liability. Any changes to PayPal’s practices resulting from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend product resources, which could delay other planned product launches or improvements and further harm our business. Also, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau launched a complaints portal on its website that allows customers to file complaints against money transfer service providers, including PayPal and Venmo, and publishes information on such complaints. If PayPal is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, PayPal’s users may have negative experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged and it could become subject to additional litigation. As a result, current and future revenues could suffer, losses could be incurred and its operating margins could decrease. Our industries are intensely competitive. Across our businesses, the industries in which we compete are characterized by dynamic and rapid technological change, many and different business models and frequent disruption of incumbents by innovative entrants. We often compete across a range of industries with platform businesses such as Apple, Google and Facebook, many of whom are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position in other industries, and offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants which we do not offer. As online and offline commerce increasingly converge, the pace of change, innovation and disruption is increasing. Marketplaces Our Marketplaces businesses currently and potentially compete with a wide variety of online and offline companies providing goods and services to consumers and merchants. The Internet and mobile networks provide new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods and services. Our Marketplaces businesses compete in two-sided markets, and must attract both buyers and sellers to use our platforms. Consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through our Marketplaces businesses have more and more alternatives, and merchants have more channels to reach consumers. We expect competition to continue to intensify. Online and offline businesses increasingly are competing with each other. The barriers to entry into these channels can be low, and businesses easily can launch online sites or mobile platforms and applications at nominal cost by using commercially available software or partnering with any of a number of successful ecommerce companies. In addition, our Marketplaces businesses face increased competitive pressure online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, ecommerce and mobile commerce has significantly increased, due to, among other factors, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. Also, certain platform businesses such as Apple, Google and Facebook, many of whom are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position in other industries, and offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants which we do not offer. Some of our competitors, such as Google, control other products and services that are important to our success, including credit card interchange, Internet search and mobile operating systems. Recently, Google made changes to its search algorithms that had the effect of reducing the amount of traffic our Marketplaces business receives from free search on Google. If we are unable to change our products, offerings and services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce and mobile commerce marketplaces, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher expected service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms) or compete effectively with and adapt to changes in larger platform businesses, our business will suffer. Consumers who might use our site to buy goods have a wide variety of alternatives, including the vast majority of traditional department, warehouse, boutique, discount and general merchandise stores (as well as the online and mobile operations of these traditional retailers), online retailers and their related mobile offerings, online and offline classified services and other shopping channels such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the U.S., these include Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club, Amazon.com (which continues to expand into new geographies and lines of business), Buy.com (owned by Rakuten), Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC and Home Shopping Network, among others. In addition, consumers have a large number of online and offline channels focused on one or more of the categories of products offered on our site. Consumers also can turn to many companies that offer a variety of services that provide other channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites such as craigslist (in which we own a minority equity stake), Oodle.com and a number of international websites operated by Schibsted ASA or Naspers Limited. Consumers also can turn to shopping-comparison sites, such as Google Shopping. In certain markets, our fixed-price listing and traditional auction-style listing formats increasingly are being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. Our classifieds websites, including Den Blå Avis, BilBasen, eBay Classifieds (including eBay Anuncios, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), Gumtree, Kijiji, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl, mobile.de and alaMaula, offer classifieds listings in the U.S. and a variety of local international markets. In many markets in which they operate, including in the U.S., our classified platforms compete for customers and for advertisers against more established online and offline classifieds platforms Our online shopping comparison websites (Shopping.com) compete with sites such as Google Shopping, Buy.com, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, Buscapé in Latin America (owned by Naspers) and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on horizontal search engine sites such as Google, Yahoo!, Naver and Baidu. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to help users find our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. Consumers may choose to search for products and services with a horizontal search engine instead of our sites, and horizontal search engines may send users to other shopping destinations instead of our sites. Consumers and merchants who might use our sites to sell goods also have many alternatives, including general ecommerce sites such as Amazon, Alibaba and more specialized sites, such as Etsy. Our international sites also compete for sellers with general ecommerce sites such as: Amazon, Rakuten.de, Quelle and Otto in Germany; Leboncoin.fr and PriceMinister (owned by Rakuten) in France; Taobao Marketplace and Taobao Mall in China; Tradus (owned by Naspers) in Poland; Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan; Lotte, Naver and 11th Street in South Korea; Trading Post and Quicksales in Australia; and Amazon and Play.com (owned by Rakuten) in the United Kingdom and other countries; and Alibaba and AliExpress (owned by Alibaba) in Russia, Brazil and certain less developed markets. Our sellers may choose to sell their goods through other channels, such as classifieds sites. Consumers and merchants also can create and sell through their own sites, and may choose to purchase online advertising instead of using our services. In some countries, there are online sites that have larger customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do, as well as competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce than we do. As our businesses in developing countries grow, we increasingly may compete with domestic competitors that have advantages we do not possess, such as a greater ability to operate under local regulatory authorities. The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online and mobile competition, additional competitive factors include: community cohesion, interaction and size; website or mobile platform and application ease-of-use and accessibility; user engagement; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment, including customer preference for fast delivery and free shipping and returns; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other ecommerce sites may be acquired by, receive investments from or enter into other commercial relationships with well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote more resources to website, mobile platforms and applications and systems development than we can. Some of our competitors may offer or continue to offer faster and/or free shipping, favorable return policies or other transaction-related services which improve the user experience on their sites and which could be impractical or inefficient for our sellers to match. Our competitors may be able to innovate faster and more efficiently than we can, and new technologies may further increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Our competitors may be able to use the advantages of brick-and-mortar stores or other sorts of physical presence. In addition, certain manufacturers may limit or cease distribution of their products through online channels such as eBay. Manufacturers may attempt to use existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit ecommerce in certain categories of goods or services. Manufacturers may also attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance or minimum advertised price arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our websites or on the Internet generally, or at prices that would make our website attractive relative to other alternatives. For example, ASICS Corp. has taken steps to restrict Internet sales of their products on platform sites such as eBay.com. Following a probe by the German Federal Cartel Office (“FCO”), Adidas recently issued a statement stepping back from its restrictions, asserting that open marketplaces such as eBay can be used for distribution of its products as long as such marketplaces are capable of meeting Adidas’ criteria. The specific criteria that Adidas may require has not yet been stated. Similarly, the German FCO has issued a strong warning to ASICS Corp. over its restrictions on online sales of its shoes by third parties, saying that these restrictions constitute a de facto ban on Internet distribution. While we view these as positive developments, the adoption by manufacturers of policies, or the adoption of new laws or regulations or interpretations of existing laws or regulations by government authorities, in each case discouraging or restricting the sales of goods or services over the Internet, could force our users to stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased competition or anti-Internet distribution policies or regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brands. As we respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among some of our sellers, which could reduce activity on our websites and harm our profitability. Although we receive Internet traffic from several large online services and search engine providers, these arrangements may not continue on favorable terms or these companies may decide to promote competitive services. In any event, such arrangements may not result in increased usage of our sites. In addition, companies that control user access to transactions through network access, Internet browsers, mobile networks, mobile operating systems or search engines could promote our competitors, channel current or potential users to their vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their advertisers’ sites, attempt to restrict access to our sites or charge us substantial fees for inclusion. For example, Google increasingly may steer its users to its own sites, adversely affecting traffic to our sites. Search engines increasingly are becoming a starting point for online shopping, and as the costs of operating an online store continue to decline, online sellers may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers conduct through our sites. PayPal The markets for PayPal’s products and services are intensely competitive and are subject to rapid technological change, including but not limited to: mobile payments, electronic funds transfer networks allowing Internet access, cross-border access to payment networks, creation of new payment networks and new technologies for enabling merchants, both online and offline, to process payments more simply. PayPal faces competition and potential competition from existing online, mobile and offline payment methods, including, among others: providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit and debit cards, checks, money orders and Automated Clearing House transactions (these providers are primarily well-established banks); providers of “digital wallets” which offer customers the ability to pay online or on mobile devices through a variety of payment methods, including Visa’s V.me, MasterCard’s MasterPass, American Express’s Serve, Google Wallet and the Merchant Customer Exchange (MCX) initiative supported by Walmart, Target and other major U.S. retailers; payment-card processors that offer their services to merchants, including Chase Paymentech, First Data, Bank of America Merchant Services, Elavon, Vantiv, WorldPay, Barclays Merchant Services, Global Payments, Inc., Stripe and Balanced, and payment gateways, including CyberSource and Authorize.net (both owned by Visa), SimplifyCommerce by MasterCard and First Data; Amazon Payments, which offers merchants the ability to accept payment card- and bank-funded payments from Amazon’s base of online and mobile customers on the merchant’s own website. Amazon has recently launched a new payment service for online merchants under the name Log in and Pay with Amazon; providers of mobile payments, including ISIS in the U.S., Buyster in France, Mpass in Germany, Weve and Paym in the U.K., Boku and Crandy, many of which are owned by or supported by major mobile carriers; and providers of card readers for mobile devices and of other new point of sale and multi-channel technologies, including Square (which has also begun to offer a marketplace service to sellers), Chase Paymentech, Bank of America, AT&T (in association with Vantiv), Capital One, Shopify, iZettle, WorldPay, Payleven, Groupon, SumUp and others. PayPal also faces competition and potential competition from: money remitters such as MoneyGram, Western Union, Global Payments, Inc., Xoom and Euronet; bill payment services, including CheckFree, a subsidiary of Fiserv; services that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit, including Western Union’s WU Pay, Dwolla, Acculynk, TeleCheck (a subsidiary of First Data), iDEAL in the Netherlands, Klarna in several European countries, Sofortueberweisung (which recently merged with Klarna) in Germany, PayLib in France and the MyBank pan-European initiative; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including NetSpend, Green Dot, PayNearMe, UKash and Qiwi in Russia; other international online payment-services providers such as AliPay, the PayU group of companies (owned by Naspers), PagSeguro and Bcash (owned by Naspers); other providers of online account-based payments, such as Skrill, ClickandBuy (owned by Deutsche Telekom), Barclays Pingit in the U.K., Kwixo in France and Paymate and Visa PayClick in Australia; payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, often through billing to the consumer’s mobile phone account, including PlaySpan (owned by Visa), Boku, Bango and Payfone; payment services enabling banks to offer their online banking customers the ability to send and receive payments through their bank account, including PopMoney from Fiserv, which has a collaboration agreement with Visa, and ClearXchange (a joint venture among Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JP Morgan Chase); online shopping services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider, such as Visa’s RightCliq, MasterCard MarketPlace, TrialPay and Tapjoy; services such as Coinbase and Bitpay that help merchants accept and manage virtual currencies such as Bitcoin; and cash. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater brand recognition or a larger base of customers than PayPal, and may be also be able to leverage other affiliated businesses for competitive advantage or to attempt to prohibit or prevent competition from PayPal. PayPal’s competitors may be able to innovate and respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements  faster and more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and other regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to additional regulations based on, among other factors, its licensure as a bank in Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion and sale of products and services than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google previously has offered free payments processing on transactions in amounts proportionate to certain advertising spending with Google. We also expect new entrants to offer competitive products and services. In addition, some merchants provide such services to themselves. Competing services tied to established banks and other financial institutions may offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal. In addition, in certain countries, such as Germany, Netherlands and Australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online and offline transactions. In the U.K., the Payments Council has announced that mobile payments between bank accounts will be broadly available beginning in 2014. As in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and easily develop such a service. The principal competitive factors for PayPal include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage both buyers and sellers with relatively low marketing expense; ability to show that sellers will achieve incremental sales by offering PayPal; security of transactions and the ability for buyers to use PayPal without sharing their financial information with the seller; low fees and simplicity of fee structure; ability to develop services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the retail point of sale; trust in PayPal’s dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online and mobile competition, additional competitive factors include: website and mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; data security; ease and quality of integration into third-party mobile applications; and quality of developer tools such as our application programming interfaces and software development kits. Some of PayPal’s competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First Data, American Express, WorldPay (The Royal Bank of Scotland) and GE Capital Retail Bank, also provide processing services to PayPal. If PayPal were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers, either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition, these processing relationships could be negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services. Enterprise Our Enterprise business provides our suite of commerce technologies, omnichannel operations capabilities and marketing solutions that enable companies to operate and integrate their ecommerce offering into their omnichannel business. The market for such products and services is continuously evolving and intensely competitive. Many of our prospective clients evaluate managing all or some aspects of an omnichannel business with internal resources. As a result, we often compete with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal information technology staffs, marketing departments, merchandising groups and other internal corporate constituencies as well as with external technology and interactive marketing service providers that supply one or more components that allow prospective clients to develop and operate their omnichannel business in-house. This group of providers may include the prospective client itself and companies that offer: Web platforms (e.g., Art Technology Group (owned by Oracle), IBM, Amazon, Demandware, MarketLive and Microsoft); customer care/call center services (e.g., West Communications, Amazon, Sykes Enterprises and Convergys); fulfillment and logistics (e.g., PFS Web, Amazon, Innotrac, DHL and UPS); and systems integrators and technology providers (e.g., Accenture, EDS, Sapient, Infosys, Oracle and IBM); email management and data aggregation (e.g., Experian, Harte-Hanks and Epsilon); online marketing and design services (digital marketing services agencies such as Omnicom Group, WPP Group, Publicis and the Interpublic Group of Companies); and other interactive marketing services (e.g., Google, LinkShare (owned by Rakuten), TradeDoubler, Adobe and ValueClick). Low barriers to entry in the interactive marketing industry could also increase the number of competitors we may face. We believe that we compete primarily on the basis of the following: offering the choice of a complete integrated solution or a component-based solution; promoting the client’s brand and business, rather than our own; providing scale and operating leverage with an enterprise focus; establishing a commitment to invest in and enhance our platform; aligning our financial interests with those of our clients; offering digital marketing solutions that are integrated with our suite of commerce technologies, which we believe provides a more strategic, cohesive and optimized approach to growing ecommerce businesses; and providing services that utilize proprietary technology to promote stronger customer engagement designed to increase clients’ return on investment. Our Enterprise business has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources. Those competitors may be able to secure components of their technology and services on more favorable terms and devote more resources to technology development and marketing than our Enterprise business. In addition, as we expand our business internationally, we will face increased competition from global and local companies which may have a greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. Lastly, as our current and prospective clients seek a larger global presence and target new markets abroad, we will increasingly compete with ecommerce services competitors on the basis of our international solutions. We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws We are subject to scrutiny by various government agencies under U.S. and foreign regulations, including competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S., individual states, the European Commission or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Contractual agreements with buyers, sellers or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Also, our unilateral business practices could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Some regulators, particularly those outside of the U.S., may perceive our business to have so much market power that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. In the U.S., we have been sued by a plaintiff representing a putative class of sellers who alleges that we have illegally monopolized a market for online auctions. In Korea, the national competition authority investigated allegations that we have engaged in illegal exclusive conduct and rendered a decision against us in October 2010. Both the main case and a related administrative action were resolved in our favor. The competition authorities in Germany and Australia have conducted investigations (now completed) of various actions taken by our businesses. Other competition authorities have conducted market studies of our industries. Such claims and investigations, even if without foundation, may be very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort and could result in significant judgments against us or require us to change our business practices In several jurisdictions, we have taken actions designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites and mobile platforms. For example, beginning in June 2008, we have required users in the U.K. to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized U.K. site, and since October 2008, we have required sellers on eBay.com to accept one or more accepted payment methods (currently PayPal, Bill Me Later, credit or debit cards processed through Internet merchant accounts, ProPay and Skrill (formerly known as Moneybookers)) and no longer allow any forms of paper payment, including checks and money orders, to be listed by sellers in the U.S. for most categories of items. While these initiatives are intended to improve and make safer our users’ buying experience and/or increase activity on our sites, certain users may be negatively affected by or react negatively to these changes, and may allege that we have (and are abusing) market power. We have faced inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to such actions, such as, in 2008, both the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. We may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. Negative reactions to these changes by our users or government authorities could, among other things, force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business, operating results and profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites or mobile platforms and applications, including geopolitical events, natural disasters, seasonal factors and increased usage of other websites. Our users may spend less time on our websites or mobile platforms and applications as a result of a variety of diversions, including: geopolitical events, such as war, the threat of war or terrorist activity; natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes; increased use of social networking or other entertainment websites or mobile platforms and applications, which may decrease the amount of time users spend on our websites or mobile platforms and applications; significant local, national or global events capturing the attention of a large part of the population, such as the World Cup; and seasonal fluctuations due to a variety of factors, such as decreased activity on our websites caused by the onset of good weather during the summer months and national holidays or increased activity during the holiday season. Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites, mobile platforms or applications could adversely affect our business. Our failure to cost-effectively manage the expansion of our headcount, facilities and infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally could harm our business. We have expanded significantly our headcount, facilities and infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that further expansion in certain areas and geographies will be required for some of our businesses. We are also increasing our product and service offerings across our businesses. This expansion increases the complexity of our businesses and places a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. The areas of our business that are put under strain by our growth include the following: Technology Platforms. We continue to focus on upgrading and developing our systems and infrastructure to accommodate the growth of our businesses and to improve the functionality and reliability of our websites and services at a reasonable cost while maintaining uninterrupted 24/7 operations. Risks associated with our failure to do so are described under the captions “If we are unable to cost-effectively upgrade and expand our websites, services and platforms, our business would suffer” and “Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business.” Customer Account Billing. Our revenues depend on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed on our and our subsidiaries’ websites would harm our business and our ability to collect revenue. Customer Service. We continue to focus on providing better and more efficient customer support to our users. We intend to provide an increased level of support (including an increasing amount of telephone support and supporting an increasing number of languages) in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to provide customer support in a cost-effective manner, users of our products and services may have negative experiences, current and future revenues could suffer, our costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. Internal Infrastructure. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. To effectively manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. This is a special challenge as we acquire new operations with different and incompatible systems. Any capital investments that we may make will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in the short term. Failure to implement these improvements could limit our ability to manage our growth and adversely affect our operating results. Also, we must continue to effectively hire, train and manage new employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating new employees or if we are unsuccessful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our tax structure. Governments are increasingly focused on ways to increase revenues, which has contributed to an increase in audit activity and harsher stances taken by tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient in the event that any taxing authority is successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our positions. In light of serious ongoing fiscal challenges in the U.S. and many countries in Europe, various levels of government are also increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue, including corporate income taxes.  For example, the economic downturn reduced tax revenues for U.S. federal and state governments, and a number of proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities have been implemented or are being considered at various levels of government. Among the options have been a range of proposals included in the tax and budget policies recommended to the U.S. Congress by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to modify the federal tax rules related to the imposition of U.S. federal corporate income taxes for companies operating in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. If such proposals are enacted into law, this could increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S. states have likewise attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state, and taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions may take similar actions. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas to increase the amount of taxable income/loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of these efforts. If more taxing authorities are successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that do not have a physical presence in the jurisdiction, this could increase our effective tax rate. We currently hold a significant amount of our free cash outside of the United States. Such arrangements may have certain tax efficiencies, but they may also place constraints on our possible use of the cash. In the event we determine to repatriate the cash to the United States, or in the event of significant change to tax laws domestically or internationally, we may be subject to significant additional tax liabilities that could negatively impact our results. In that regard, as described under “Part I, Item 2: Management’s Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations--Provision for Income Taxes"" and-""--Liquidity and Capital Resource Requirements” above, during the first quarter of 2014, we changed our intent with regard to the indefinite reinvestment of unremitted foreign earnings of certain of our foreign subsidiaries for 2013 and prior years and, as a result, accrued deferred taxes of approximately $3 billion. Our developer platforms, which are open to merchants and third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. In 2009, we launched the PayPal Developer Platform to enable third-party developers to access a wide variety of PayPal product and programming code specifications and to connect to select PayPal payment application programming interfaces (APIs). We also began providing a software development kit (SDK) for building mobile payments applications, and enabling third-party developers to access certain APIs with respect to our Marketplaces platforms. In August 2011, we acquired Magento, Inc. (now X.commerce, Inc.) which includes an open platform for merchants and developers. In March 2013, we announced enhanced SDKs and API tools for the PayPal platform, with a particular focus on developers of mobile applications. There can be no assurance that merchants or third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. In addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions. It is possible that merchants and third-party developers who utilize our development platforms, APIs and SDKs could violate these regulatory restrictions and we may be held responsible for such violations, which could adversely affect our business. We have substantial indebtedness, and we may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, and we may not generate sufficient cash flow from our business to service our indebtedness. As of June 30, 2014, we had approximately $4.1 billion of senior unsecured notes outstanding and approximately $1.2 billion of senior unsecured indebtedness outstanding under our $2 billion commercial paper program and no indebtedness or letters of credit outstanding under our $3 billion senior unsecured revolving credit facility (of which $2 billion of available borrowing capacity was reserved to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they come due and $1 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by the credit facility). We may incur substantial additional indebtedness in the future, including under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility or through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have significant consequences, including, without limitation, any of the following: we will be required to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies will likely increase our borrowing costs; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases or other general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the U.S. at substantial tax cost; seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; or reduce or delay planned capital or operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. We may be unable to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay and PayPal names), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. For example, we pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights when offering or procuring products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to, and disclosure of, our proprietary and confidential information. However, effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our technology or deter independent development of equivalent or superior technologies or other intellectual property rights by others. In addition, trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every jurisdiction. Also, we may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. Furthermore, we have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. Any failure to adequately protect or enforce our intellectual property rights, or significant costs incurred in doing so, could materially harm our business. Our businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet by our users, as well as access to mobile networks. Internet service providers and mobile network operators may be able to block, degrade or charge us or our users additional fees for our offerings, which could harm our business. Our users rely on access to the Internet or mobile networks to use our products and services. In many cases, that access is provided by companies that compete with at least some of our offerings, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and large Internet service providers. Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt or increase the cost of customers’ use of our offerings by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Mobile network operators or operating system providers could block or place onerous restrictions on our ability to offer our mobile applications in their mobile application stores. Internet service providers or mobile network operators could attempt to charge us each time our customers use our offerings. Worldwide, a number of companies have announced plans to take such actions or are selling products designed to facilitate such actions. The United States Federal Communications Commission (FCC) enacted rules in December 2010 (Preserving the Open Internet Broadband Industry Practices (FCC-10-201)) establishing baseline restrictions that would regulate the ability of Internet access companies to interfere with Internet traffic transported over wired and wireless networks. The new rules were challenged in court and the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals released a ruling on January 14, 2013, affirming the FCC’s jurisdiction over Internet access services but rejecting aspects of the FCC rules that the court interpreted as applying common carrier-type obligations to Internet broadband providers. On May 15, 2014, the FCC released a Notice of Proposed Rulemaking (Notice) on the rules seeking comments to propose public policy to ensure the openness of the Internet. The Notice proposes enhanced transparency, a no-blocking rule and review of discrimination by Internet Service Providers. Any interference with our offerings or higher charges for access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers, could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers and harm our revenue and growth. Our business depends on the maintenance and security of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our services depends on the maintenance and security of the Internet infrastructure. Problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” malware and similar programs may require considerable resources to correct and could harm the performance of the Internet over a short or long period of time. In addition, hackers pose an increasing threat to the security of online and mobile commerce. Also, the Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. Any threats to the maintenance and security of the Internet could adversely impact our business. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including land and buildings related to our operations. Ownership of this real property subjects us to a number of additional risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; disruptions to our operations resulting from possible natural disasters, interruptions in utilities and similar events; adverse changes in the value of these properties due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability law or other requirements; and the possibility of disputes with tenants, neighboring owners or others. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or take control of our board of directors. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors through our annual meeting of stockholders in 2015 (at which time all members of our Board of Directors will be subject to election), prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined by Delaware law) for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control. A future proxy contest could increase costs and prove distracting. We were involved in a proxy contest with an “activist” stockholder in 2014 relating to both Board seats and a proposal to split the Company into separate payments and ecommerce companies.  We received significant input from our stockholders over the course of the contest and our Board continues to assess our alternatives.  The settlement that ended the 2014 contest does not prevent the activist (or other activist stockholders who own our stock) from initiating another proxy contest in 2015.  If such a contest were to occur, it could involve substantial expense and prove a distraction to our management and employees, which could adversely affect our business.",0.999043043131,0.858159509202
24,1065088, EBAY , 2013-07-19 ,2013,2," Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock and debt offerings. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include risks described elsewhere in this section and the following: general economic conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged period of limited economic growth or possible economic decline in Europe; adverse effects of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe, including increased Euro currency exchange rate volatility, the negative impact of the crisis and related austerity measures on European economic growth, potential negative spillover effects to the rest of the world, the “contagion” risk of the crisis spreading to additional countries in Europe, the possibility that one or more countries may leave the Euro zone and re-introduce their individual currencies, and, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the Euro currency; the possibility of greater austerity in the U.S. due to, among other factors, automatic sequesters, failure to raise the “debt ceiling,” or other related actions (or failure to take actions) by the U.S. Congress and executive branch and, more generally, the impact of uncertainty regarding the fiscal policy of the U.S. government; disruptions to the credit and financial markets in Europe, the U.S., and elsewhere; contractions or limited growth in consumer spending or consumer credit; and adverse economic conditions that may be specific to the Internet, ecommerce and payments industries; our ability to manage the rapid shift from online commerce and payments to mobile and multi-channel commerce and payments; our ability to improve the quality of the user experience on our websites and through mobile devices (including our customer support in the event of a problem) to keep pace with the improved quality of the user experience generally offered by competitive platforms; our ability to upgrade and develop our systems (including the migration to our Enterprise business' new enterprise commerce platform and our need to “replatform” our base PayPal technology), infrastructure and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to improve the functionality and reliability of our websites and services at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7 operations; the primary and secondary effects of previously announced and possible future changes to our pricing, products and policies, including, among other changes, restrictions or holds on payments made to certain sellers or in connection with certain transactions; changes to our dispute resolution process and buyer and seller protections; upgrades to eBay checkout services, including the introduction of an eBay shopping cart/basket that enables buyers to add items from multiple sellers and pay in a single checkout; changes to our fee structure; changes to the design, navigation and functionality of the eBay.com website, including a redesigned homepage, the addition of an “eBay Feed” that allows users to establish a personalized feed of items on their homepage and the display of larger images and product information; changes to the checkout process, including the ability for users to connect their eBay and PayPal accounts more easily; new functionality for sellers to specify shipping, payment and return policies (collectively referred to as “business policies""), which sellers automatically began to be opted into beginning in mid-June 2013 and which will become mandatory in 2014; enforcement of new picture quality requirements for listed items starting in July 2013; and other products and features through which we are increasingly intermediating more aspects of transactions between buyers and sellers using our platforms; our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users, and encourage existing users to list items for sale and purchase items through our websites and mobile platforms, or use our payment services, especially when consumer spending is weak; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions using our websites and technology (including through mobile devices) and the effect of any changes in our practices and policies or of any events on such confidence; the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of new stores, channels, sites, applications, services, products and functionality, or changes to the provision or prices of services important to our success, including interchange, Internet search and smartphone operating systems; our ability to manage the costs of and administer our user protection programs; our ability to comply with existing and new laws and regulations as we expand the range and geographical scope of our products and services and as we grow larger, including those laws and regulations discussed below under the captions “There are many risks associated with our international operations,” “We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes,” “Our Payments business is subject to a number of laws and regulations, including those governing banking, money transmission, and payment services, that vary in the markets where we operate, and any violations of such laws and regulations could subject us to liability, licensure and regulatory approval, and may force us to change our business practices,” “If our Payments business is found to be in violation of any anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing laws or regulations, it could be subject to liability and regulatory oversight and may be forced to change its business practices,” and “If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any consumer protection laws or regulations or to have violated criminal statutes or regulations, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices”; new laws or regulations (such as those that may stem from the proposed Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) and Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPP), the European Consumer Rights Directive and the proposed revisions to the European Data Protection Directive) and interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including national court interpretations of the European Court of Justice's decision in the L'Oréal case (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above), that impose liability on us for the actions of our users or otherwise harm our business models, especially as we become more actively involved in various aspects of transactions on our platforms; regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our businesses or our users, including the injunction related to certain cosmetic and perfume brands (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above); the impact on PayPal or Bill Me Later of regulations enacted pursuant to new laws regulating financial institutions, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the U.S., or the Dodd-Frank Act; our ability to manage the costs of compliance with existing and new laws and regulations that affect our businesses; the volume, velocity, size, timing, monetization, and completion rates of transactions using our websites or technology; our ability to reduce the loss of active buyers and sellers and increase activity of the users of our Marketplaces business, especially with respect to our top buyers and sellers, and increase activity of PayPal account holders, particularly in our merchant services business;  our ability to develop product enhancements, programs, and features on different platforms and mobile devices at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, including our initiatives to make PayPal solutions available at the retail point of sale; changes to our use of advertising on our sites; the costs and results of litigation or regulatory actions that involve us; technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our websites; disruptions to services provided to us or our users by third parties; our ability to manage the transaction loss rate in our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise ecommerce services businesses; our ability to manage funding costs, credit risk and interest-rate risk associated with our Bill Me Later business; our ability to successfully and cost-effectively integrate and manage businesses that we acquire; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure; our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose services are required for our operations, such as payment card networks and banks; the cost and availability of traditional and online advertising, and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective manner and to retain key employees; the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and other commercial counterparties; continued consumer acceptance of the Internet and of mobile devices as a medium for commerce and payments in the face of increasing publicity about data privacy issues, including breaches, fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, malware and other dangers; and macroeconomic and geopolitical events affecting commerce generally. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. We invest heavily in technology, marketing and promotion, customer support, protection programs and further development of the operating infrastructure for our operations. Some of this investment entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. The growth of Internet users is slowing in many countries where we have a significant presence. As our growth rates in established markets slow, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing Marketplaces users (especially our top buyers and sellers) and PayPal account holders (especially in our merchant services business) active and increasing their activity level on our websites and mobile platforms in order to continue to grow those businesses. The growth of Internet users is accelerating in some countries and regions where we do not have a significant presence (e.g., Brazil/Latin America, Russia, China and certain other countries in which we do not have a meaningful (or, in some cases, any) domestic business). If we are unable to establish our businesses and drive adoption of our services in such markets, our future growth would be negatively impacted. Mobile commerce and mobile payments represent an increasingly important part of our businesses. Our users who have joined, and/or primarily interact with, us through mobile devices may exhibit different behavioral patterns than our more traditional Internet ecommerce and payments users. If this results in fewer interactions, lower levels of engagement, lower conversion, or lower value of each interaction or conversion, our businesses could be harmed. Our Marketplaces business continues to face increased competitive pressure online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, Internet ecommerce and mobile commerce has significantly increased, due to, among other factors, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. If we are unable to change our services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the Internet ecommerce and mobile commerce marketplaces, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher expected service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), our business will suffer. We regularly announce changes to our Marketplaces business intended to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency and buyer experiences and trust. Some of the changes that we have announced to date have been controversial with, and led to dissatisfaction among, our sellers, and additional changes that we announce in the future may also be negatively received by some of our sellers. This may not only impact the supply of items listed on our websites, but because many sellers also buy from our websites, it may adversely impact demand as well. Given the number of recent changes that we have made and continue to make to our policies and pricing, it may take our sellers some time to fully assess and adjust to these changes, and sellers may elect to reduce volume on our websites while making such assessments and adjustments or in response to these changes. If any of these changes cause sellers to move their business (in whole or in part) away from our websites or otherwise fail to improve gross merchandise volume or the number of successful listings, our operating results and profitability will be harmed. We believe that the mix of sales under our traditional auction-style listing format and fixed-price listing format will continue to shift towards our fixed-price format. Accordingly, we have eliminated some of the features related to our traditional auction-style format and expect others will continue to become less meaningful to, and used less frequently by, our sellers, resulting in a corresponding decrease in revenues from those features. We also expect that the costs associated with our seller discount programs will increase as more sellers become eligible for such discounts. In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions originate on the Marketplaces platform, declines in growth rates in major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal's growth. The expected future growth of our PayPal, Enterprise, StubHub and our other lower margin businesses may also cause downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms. The sluggish economy and the sovereign debt crisis could harm our business. Our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise ecommerce services businesses are dependent on consumer purchases, and our Enterprise business is also impacted by the offline businesses of our Enterprise clients. The economic downturn resulted in reduced buyer demand and reduced selling prices, and the slow recovery and possible impact of automatic sequesters or a failure to raise the “debt ceiling” in the U.S., as well as the impact of the sovereign debt crisis and resulting austerity measures in Europe, may reduce the volume and prices of purchases on our Marketplaces platforms, the volume and prices of transactions paid for using our Payment services and the online and offline businesses of our Enterprise clients, which would adversely affect our business. These macroeconomic factors could also have a negative and adverse impact on companies with which we do business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Because we generate a majority of our revenues outside the U.S. but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or if exposure reports are delayed. Given that PayPal also holds some corporate and customer funds in non-U.S. currencies, its financial results are affected by the translation of these non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated transactions will result in lower net revenues, operating expenses and net income. If the U.S. dollar strengthens against major European currencies (e.g., the Euro and British pound) due to the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe, worsening economic conditions or for any other reasons, our revenues and operating results would be adversely impacted. For the three months ended June 30, 2013, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted our net revenues of $3.9 billion by less than $1 million (net of a positive impact from hedging activities included in PayPal's net revenue of approximately $3 million) compared to the same period in the prior year. As exchange rates vary, net revenues and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, British pound, Korean won, Australian dollar, or Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced as a result of these translation adjustments. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to predict or completely eliminate the effects of this exposure. In addition, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar or other currencies, cross-border trade related to purchases of dollar-denominated goods (or goods from those Asia-Pacific countries whose currencies tend to follow the dollar) by non-U.S. purchasers will likely decrease, and that decrease will likely not be offset by a corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Relatively low interest rates have continued to limit our investment income, including income we earn on PayPal customer balances. Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender. In November 2008, we acquired Bill Me Later, a company that facilitates credit services offered by an unaffiliated bank. Bill Me Later is neither a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state. Accordingly, Bill Me Later must rely on a bank or licensed lender to issue the Bill Me Later credit products and extend credit to customers to offer the Bill Me Later service. Currently, when a consumer makes a purchase using a Bill Me Later credit product, the chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase the receivables related to the consumer loans made by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of the purchase, bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each customer account, we own the related receivable and Bill Me Later is responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. In September 2010, WebBank became the issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products. WebBank is an industrial bank chartered by the State of Utah. Any termination or interruption of WebBank's ability to lend could result in our being unable to originate any new transactions for the Bill Me Later service, which would require us to either reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution, which, if possible at all, may not be available on favorable terms, or to obtain our own bank charter, which would be a time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to a number of additional laws and regulations, compliance with which would be burdensome. In May 2010, a lawsuit was filed against Bill Me Later, PayPal and eBay in California state court, alleging that in its relationship with the chartered financial institution, Bill Me Later is acting as the true lender to customers and violating various California laws, including the state's usury law. That suit was later removed to the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California. In September 2011, WebBank requested to intervene in the action and was added as a party to the action. In October 2011, the court transferred the case to the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah. Following the transfer, the Utah Court allowed plaintiffs the opportunity to amend the complaint and plaintiffs filed an amended complaint in February 2012. We and WebBank filed a motion to dismiss all claims in the amended complaint in March 2012. A hearing on the motion was held by the court in September 2012. We believe that plaintiffs' allegations are without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. However, this area of law is uncertain and if the lawsuit is successful, Bill Me Later may be required to change its methods of operations, pay very substantial damages and reduce some of its charges and fees, which would adversely affect our business. Our Payments business is subject to a number of laws and regulations, including those governing banking, money transmission, and payment services, that vary in the markets where we operate, and any violations of such laws and regulations could subject us to liability, licensure and regulatory approval, and may force us to change our business practices. Our Payments business is subject to various laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries where it operates, including those governing banking, money transmission and payment services. The legal and regulatory requirements that apply to our Payments business vary in the markets where we operate and have increased over time as the range and geographical scope of our business and products have expanded. Any new laws and regulations (or changes to, or expansion of, the interpretation or application of existing laws and regulations) applicable to our Payments business could subject PayPal to additional laws and regulations, additional licensure requirements and increased regulatory scrutiny, which could force PayPal to change its business practices and harm PayPal's business.  While PayPal has a compliance program focused on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and has significantly increased the resources of that program in the last several years, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to fines or other enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions or be required to make changes to our business practices or compliance programs to comply in the future. While PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send payments from approximately 190 markets, PayPal only allows customers in 110 of those markets (including the U.S.) to receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. These limitations may affect PayPal's ability to grow in these markets. Of the markets whose residents can use the PayPal service, 32 (28 countries plus four French overseas departments) are members of the European Union, or EU. Since 2007, PayPal has provided localized versions of its service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l. et Cie, SCA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, information security, sanctions or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks. Any fines or other enforcement actions imposed by the Luxembourg regulator could adversely affect PayPal's business. PayPal (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries through a “passport” notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the “passport” notification process in all EU member countries. The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. These or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, PayPal's plans for expanding its business in EU countries. In addition, national interpretations of regulations implementing the EU Payment Services Directive, which established a new regulatory regime for payment services providers in 2009, may be inconsistent, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. In 2011, we began implementing a new payment process in Germany and Austria in which eBay intermediated payments, receiving funds directly from buyers for items purchased from newly registered sellers on the localized eBay websites in those countries and subsequently paying the sellers upon shipment of the items. The German Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and the Austrian Finanzmarktaufsicht (FMA) subsequently determined that eBay was required to obtain a license in order to introduce the new payment method. eBay's payment processing unit is based in Luxembourg and is governed by the CSSF, which had advised that there was no need for such a license. In accordance with the BaFin and FMA positions, eBay has stopped intermediating payments in this manner. In Australia, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Australia Pty. Ltd., which is licensed by the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. Accordingly, PayPal Australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Australian depository institutions. In China, PayPal is affiliated with Shanghai Wangfuyi Information Technology Ltd., which is licensed as an Internet Content Provider and operates a payments service only for Chinese customers and only for transactions denominated in Chinese currency. The People's Bank of China (PBOC) has enacted regulations to establish a new type of license, called a Payment Clearing Organization (PCO) license, which will be required for non-bank payment services. The PBOC regulations are not clear as to whether a foreign-owned company such as PayPal can control or invest in a PCO, and whether Wangfuyi or PayPal's wholly-owned subsidiary in China would be eligible to obtain a PCO license. Nonetheless, PayPal has applied for such a license. To date, PayPal has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter in 46 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. PayPal is also licensed as an escrow agent in one U.S. state. PayPal is applying for money transmitter licenses in one additional state and one U.S. territory to facilitate its planned offering of payment services at the retail point of sale. The two remaining U.S. states where PayPal has not applied for a license do not currently regulate money transmitters. As a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to restrictions on its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. If PayPal were found to be in violation of money services laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change its business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on PayPal. Any change to PayPal's business practices that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could also decrease the velocity of trade on eBay and websites operated by Enterprise clients that accept PayPal as a form of payment, which would further harm our business. In 2012, PayPal's California regulator, the California Department of Financial Institutions (DFI), notified PayPal that PayPal's practice of holding the funds underlying U.S. customer balances as an agent on behalf of its customers, rather than as owner of those funds, meant that PayPal could not treat those funds as liquid assets for purposes of the liquidity rules applicable to California money transmitter licensees.  Based on changes to our U.S. PayPal user agreement effective November 2012, PayPal began holding U.S. customer balances as direct claims against PayPal, rather than as an agent or custodian on behalf of such PayPal customers. As a result, effective November 2012, all U.S. PayPal customer balances, which were previously reported as off-balance sheet, have been reflected as assets in our consolidated balance sheet under ""Funds receivable and customer accounts,"" with an associated liability under ""Funds payable and amounts due to customers."" In addition, this change disqualified the customer balances from pass-through FDIC insurance and resulted in U.S. PayPal customers becoming general creditors of PayPal with respect to such customer balances. This change could also result in decreased revenue to PayPal as it has shifted some of the funds from interest-bearing deposit accounts to government securities that could bear lower interest rates. In markets other than the U.S., the EU, Australia, the China domestic business and Brazil, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Private Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore. PayPal Private Ltd. is regulated in Singapore as a stored value issuer. Because PayPal Private Ltd. is regulated as a stored value issuer, and not as a remittance service, PayPal Private Ltd. is not able to offer personal remittance payments in Singapore and many of the other markets served by PayPal Private Ltd. In many of the markets other than Singapore served by PayPal Private Ltd., it is not clear whether PayPal's Singapore-based service is subject only to Singaporean law or, if it were subject to local laws, whether such local law would require a payment processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial institution or otherwise. In such markets, PayPal may rely on partnerships with local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange in local currency. Local regulators who do not have direct jurisdiction over Singapore-based PayPal Private Ltd. may use their local regulatory power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through PayPal's local banking partner. Such regulatory actions impacting local banking partner arrangements could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of PayPal services in a given market, or could prevent PayPal from providing any services in a given market. For example, in January 2010, the Reserve Bank of India directed the Indian affiliate of PayPal's processing bank to suspend withdrawals to the Indian bank accounts of PayPal customers for both personal and business customers for a period of time. As a result, PayPal ended personal non-commercial payments to and from Indian accounts and the ability of Indian sellers to spend payments they receive, and also stopped offering certain commercial payments between Indian buyers and Indian sellers. In November 2010, the Reserve Bank of India issued guidelines to Indian banks on the requirements for processing export-related transactions for online payment gateway service providers such as PayPal, including a limitation on the amount of individual transactions to no more than $500 (increased in October 2011 to $3,000 and in June 2013 to $10,000). The Reserve Bank has also approved an application by PayPal's processing bank in India which would permit PayPal to process domestic Indian transactions, subject to a number of conditions. The Reserve Bank may again impose a suspension if it is not satisfied with PayPal's and its partner bank's actions to comply with these guidelines. In the event of any non-compliance, PayPal could be subject to fines from the Reserve Bank, and PayPal's prospects for future business in India, both cross-border and domestic, could be materially and adversely affected. As another example, PayPal could also be required to change the nature of its relationship with a local banking partner in order to continue offering Taiwanese merchants the ability to receive payments in non-Taiwanese currency and withdraw those payments to their Taiwanese bank in Taiwanese currency. Even if PayPal is not currently required to be licensed in some jurisdictions, future localization or targeted marketing of PayPal's service or expansion of the financial products offered by PayPal (whether alone, through a commercial alliance or through an acquisition) in those countries could subject PayPal to additional licensure requirements, laws and regulations and increased regulatory scrutiny, which may harm PayPal's business. For example, PayPal is required to obtain a license in Russia to expand its services there. PayPal has formed a Russian subsidiary to apply for such a license, and has received approval for a license, though PayPal has not yet completed migration of its Russian customers from PayPal Private Ltd. to the Russian subsidiary. Even if PayPal does not expand its services in the countries it serves, changes in the laws of those countries could also require us to obtain new licenses or submit new registrations. For example, PayPal has submitted an application for a license in the Canadian province of Quebec, and expects that new laws or regulations may require license applications in the near future in Brazil, Turkey and Hong Kong. There can be no assurance that PayPal will be able to obtain any such licenses. Even if PayPal were able to obtain such licenses, there are substantial costs involved in maintaining such licenses, and PayPal would be subject to fines or other enforcement action if it violates disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements of such licenses. These factors could impose substantial additional costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of PayPal's products. Delay or failure to receive such a license or regulatory approval could require PayPal to change its business practices or features in ways that would adversely affect PayPal's expansion plans or force PayPal to suspend providing products and services to customers in one or more countries. Although we do not originate loans under the Bill Me Later service, we do purchase receivables related to the consumer loans extended by the bank which originates them. One or more jurisdictions may conclude that the eBay company which purchases those receivables is a lender or money transmitter or loan broker, which could subject us to liability or regulation in such jurisdictions. As described under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above, a lawsuit pending against Bill Me Later in the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah alleges that, in its relationship with the former issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products, Bill Me Later was acting as the true lender to customers in violation of various California laws, including the state's usury law. Additionally, federal regulators could mandate changes to the relationship between us and the issuing bank of the Bill Me Later credit products. Any termination or interruption of the issuing bank's lending services to consumers could result in an interruption of Bill Me Later services, as described under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above. If our Payments business is found to be in violation of any anti-money laundering or counter-terrorist financing laws or regulations, it could be subject to liability and regulatory oversight and may be forced to change its business practices. PayPal is also subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. PayPal is focused on compliance with these laws and regulations and has programs designed to comply with new and existing legal and regulatory requirements. However, any errors, failures or delays in complying with federal, state or foreign anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties and forfeiture of significant assets or other enforcement actions. In the U.S., PayPal is subject to regulations that require it to report, within required timeframes, suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more, and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. New regulations governing prepaid access programs which took full effect in March 2012 require PayPal to take additional steps to verify the identity of customers who pre-fund a PayPal balance. U.S. regulators have increased scrutiny of compliance with these obligations. Existing and new regulations may require PayPal to revise further its compliance program, including the procedures it uses to verify the identity of its customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. Several countries in which PayPal is regulated, including Australia, Japan, Luxembourg, and Singapore, have implemented new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and PayPal has had to make changes to its procedures in response. In November 2009, the Australian anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regulator (AUSTRAC) accepted an enforceable undertaking from PayPal Australia pursuant to which PayPal Australia agreed, among other things, to appoint an independent auditor to assess PayPal Australia's anti-money laundering compliance policies and procedures and issue a report identifying any unremediated deficiencies accompanied by a plan by PayPal to remedy any such deficiencies. Pursuant to the remediation plan submitted by PayPal Australia and accepted by AUSTRAC, PayPal Australia was required to invest in significant improvements to its anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing systems, policies and operations. AUSTRAC formally notified PayPal of the closure of the enforceable undertaking. As PayPal continues to localize its services in additional jurisdictions, it could be required to meet standards similar to or more burdensome than those in Australia. The European Commission has also announced a consultation process to consider revisions to the European Anti-Money Laundering Directive. These requirements, and any new requirements in the future, could impose significant costs on PayPal, cause delay to other planned product improvements, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the attractiveness of its products, which could materially harm our business. If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any consumer protection laws or regulations or to have violated criminal statutes or regulations, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices. Our Payments business is increasingly subject to consumer protection laws and regulations, which vary in the U.S. and other countries in which it operates. Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date, PayPal has taken actions as though its service is subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board. Under such regulations, among other things, PayPal is required to provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, to follow specified error resolution procedures and to reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer. PayPal seeks to pass most of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its PayPal account. Additionally, even technical violations of these laws can result in penalties of up to $1,000 for each non-compliant transaction or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action, and we could also be liable for plaintiffs' attorneys' fees. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. PayPal, Inc. and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations related to violations of aspects of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E and violations of a previous settlement agreement related to Regulation E, and/or allege that PayPal improperly held users' funds or otherwise improperly limited users' accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal's practices, among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Regulation E or violations of other laws relating to PayPal's practices could expose PayPal to significant liability. Any changes to PayPal's practices resulting from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend substantial resources, which could delay other planned product launches or improvements and further harm our business. In January 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau finalized new rules under Regulation E, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Act, which will require PayPal, starting in October 2013, to provide additional disclosures, error resolution rights and cancellation rights to U.S. consumers who make international remittance payments. These requirements could increase our costs of processing international payments and adversely affect our business. Given that our Payments business is subject to laws and regulations and licensing requirements as described in these risk factors, any determination that we have not properly complied with laws and regulations or any instances in which we are criminally indicted or found to have violated a criminal statute or regulation could adversely impact our regulatory status and our ability to offer our products and services in one or more jurisdictions, which would harm our business. Changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm PayPal's business. PayPal does not directly access payment card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, which enable PayPal's acceptance of credit cards and debit cards (including some types of prepaid cards). As a result, PayPal must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions, and must pay fees for this service. From time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. For example, MasterCard has recently announced a new Staged Digital Wallet Operator Annual Network Access Fee which would apply to many of PayPal's transactions if the buyer uses a MasterCard to fund their payment, which has been collected starting in June 2013. PayPal's payment card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to PayPal as well as increase their own fees for processing. Changes in interchange fees and assessments could increase PayPal's operating costs and reduce its profit margins. In addition, in some jurisdictions, governments have required Visa and MasterCard to reduce interchange fees, or have opened investigations as to whether Visa or MasterCard's interchange fees and practices violate antitrust law. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Act enacted in 2010 authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to regulate debit card interchange rates and debit card network exclusivity provisions, and in June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule capping debit card interchange fees at significantly lower rates than Visa or MasterCard previously charged. Any material reduction in credit or debit card interchange rates in the U.S. or other markets could jeopardize PayPal's competitive position against traditional credit and debit card processors, although it would also lower PayPal's costs. While the regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board in June 2011 do not treat PayPal as a “payment card network,” future changes to those regulations or to PayPal's business could potentially cause PayPal to be treated as a payment card network, which could subject PayPal to additional regulation and require PayPal to change its business practices, which could reduce PayPal's revenue and adversely affect PayPal's business. PayPal is required by its processors to comply with payment card network operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by PayPal or PayPal's customers. The payment card networks set and interpret the card rules. Payment card networks have from time to time alleged that various aspects of PayPal's business model violate these operating rules. Such allegations have recently been made more aggressively, and if not resolved, could result in material fines and penalties or require changes in PayPal's business that may be costly, make it less attractive to customers or even require PayPal to cease certain operations. The payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or interpret or re-interpret existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. As a result, PayPal could lose its ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments, or could lose its ability to give customers the choice of currency in which they would like their card to be charged, which would reduce PayPal's revenues from cross-border trade. If PayPal were unable to accept payment cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In addition, the velocity of trade on eBay and websites operated by Enterprise clients that accept PayPal as a form of payment could decrease and our business would further suffer. PayPal is also required to comply with payment card networks' special operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal and its payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchant customers in order to comply with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in fines, the amount of which would be within the payment card networks' discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines from payment card networks if it fails to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. For “high risk” merchants, PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using PayPal or register such merchants with payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has incurred fines from its payment card processors relating to PayPal's failure to detect the use of its service by illegal or “high risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has not been material, but did increase in 2012 compared to prior years. Any additional fines in the future would likely be for larger amounts, could become material and could result in a termination of PayPal's ability to accept payment cards or changes in PayPal's process for registering new customers, which would significantly damage PayPal's business. PayPal's new retail point-of-sale solution and PayPal Here product are also subject to payment card network operating rules, which may increase the costs of those products or otherwise negatively impact their deployment, particularly internationally.Similarly, consumers of the websites operated by Enterprise clients typically pay for purchases by payment card or similar payment method. Accordingly, our Enterprise ecommerce services business faces risks similar to the risks described above for PayPal. The listing or sale by our users of items that allegedly infringe the intellectual property rights of rights owners, included pirated or counterfeit items, may harm our business. We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our services by our users infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual property rights. See “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above. Although we have sought to work actively with the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners have actively asserted their purported rights against online companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights have resulted in threatened and actual litigation against us from time to time by rights owners, including litigation brought by luxury brand owners such as Tiffany & Co. in the U.S.; Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany; Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France; and L'Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. The plaintiffs in these cases seek to hold eBay liable for alleged counterfeit items listed on our sites by third parties; for “tester” and other consumer products labeled in a manner to prevent resale and for unboxed and other allegedly nonconforming products in each case listed on our sites by third parties; for the alleged misuse of trademarks or copyrights in listings or otherwise on our sites and in connection with paid search advertisements; for alleged violations of selective distribution channel laws or parallel import laws for listings of authentic items; and for alleged non-compliance with consumer protection laws. Such plaintiffs seek, among other remedies, injunctive relief and damages. In the aggregate, these suits could result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could, individually or in the aggregate, adversely affect our business. There are approximately 37,000 rights owners in our verified rights owner (VeRO) program, and each rights owner has anywhere from one to several hundred brands. Statutory damages for copyright or trademark violations could range up to $150,000 per copyright violation and $2,000,000 per trademark violation in the U.S., and may be even higher in other jurisdictions. These and similar suits may force us to modify our business practices, which could lower our revenue, increase our costs or make our websites and mobile platforms less convenient to our customers, which could materially harm our business. For example, in June 2013, the German Federal Supreme Court partially confirmed a decision by the Hamburg Court of Appeal in a matter where we had been found liable to prevent infringing children's chairs from appearing on the site, and ruled that as a result of keyword advertising that linked to search result lists, we were required to increase efforts to ensure that those search results were free from infringing content upon initial notification of such content. This decision may require us to change our business practices in Germany in a manner that increases our costs and lowers our revenue. In addition, rights owners have aggressively sought to reduce the applicability of limitations to intellectual property rights such as copyright exhaustion and the first sale doctrine in cases such as Vernor v. Autodesk Inc. (Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals) and Wiley v. Kirtsaeng (U.S. Supreme Court). Although the U.S. Supreme Court's ruling in Wiley v. Kirtsaeng overturned the Second Circuit Court of Appeals' ruling and established that the first sale doctrine applies in the U.S. to products lawfully made outside the U.S., some rights owners oppose that reasoning and have expressed support for a legislative change to the U.S. Copyright Act. To the extent the scope or applicability of such doctrines is limited or narrowed, the supply of goods available for resale on our sites may be adversely affected. In addition to litigation from rights owners, we may be subject to regulatory, civil or criminal proceedings and penalties if governmental authorities believe we have aided and abetted in the sale of counterfeit goods. While we have had some early success in defending against such litigation, more recent cases have been based, at least in part, on different legal theories than those of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in defending against such litigation. Plaintiffs in recent cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe harbors under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a hosting provider in the European Union under the Electronic Commerce Directive because of the alleged active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and that whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should be found liable because we supposedly have not adequately removed listings that are counterfeit or are authentic but allegedly violate trademark or copyright law or effectively suspended users who have created such listings. While we do not believe the European Court of Justice decision in the L'Oréal case (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above) changes the standard for hosting immunity under the Electronic Commerce Directive, rights owners in European jurisdictions have asserted that our degree of participation in the transaction should cause us to be unable to take advantage of the hosting immunity exception. Final resolution of this issue has been left to the national courts of member countries in the European Union. We believe that the legal climate, especially in Europe, is becoming more adverse to our positions, which may require us to take actions which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, or make our websites and mobile platforms less convenient to our customers, which could materially harm our business. In certain emerging markets, the government may be less experienced in dealing with online commerce and/or hosting immunity protections may be more limited (or not available at all). In addition, public perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on our sites, even if factually incorrect, would damage our reputation, lower the price our sellers receive for their items and damage our business. We are continuously seeking to improve and modify our efforts to eliminate counterfeit and pirated items through ongoing business initiatives designed to reduce bad buyer experiences and improve customer satisfaction and by responding to new patterns we are seeing among counterfeiters and others committing fraud on our users. Increased intermediation of transactions between buyers and sellers, which we generally refer to as our Managed Marketplace initiatives, intended to achieve those goals may result in us being unable to rely, to the same extent that we have in the past, on hosting immunity and other secondary liability safe harbors when sued by users and rights owners over actions taken on our site by our users. While we are taking steps to mitigate this impact on our safe harbor defenses, we may be subject to more intellectual property litigation and may lose more cases as a result of these business model changes, which would adversely affect our business. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may also seek to bring legal action against entities that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the use of PayPal's payment services in a transaction involving the sale of infringing items, including on our websites or mobile platforms, our business could be harmed. Several jurisdictions have adopted new laws in these areas, and others are considering imposing additional restrictions. In addition, new laws have been proposed regulating ecommerce companies with respect to intellectual property issues. For example, ACTA and TPP are trade agreements that include international standards for enforcing intellectual property rights, including provisions regarding counterfeit goods and online piracy. The European Commission is considering revising the Intellectual Property Enforcement Directive, which could potentially increase our exposure to enforcement actions from rights owners. Implementation of these or similar laws could require us to change our business practices, increase our compliance costs and harm our business. Rights owners have also increasingly gone into U.S. courts and obtained injunctions requiring PayPal to cease handling transactions for named websites and third parties (in most cases located outside the U.S.) and to hold the funds of such parties pending judicial resolution of such rights owners' claims against such parties, which disrupts the relationship between PayPal and such parties and, if such parties sell on our Marketplaces platforms, could also adversely affect our Marketplaces business. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties' patents. We are a defendant in a number of patent suits and have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. We expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise segments as our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity (e.g., our mobile, local, social and digital initiatives); as we expand into new businesses, including through acquisitions; and as the universe of patent owners who may claim that we, companies that we have acquired, or our customers (including PayPal merchants and Enterprise clients) infringe their patents and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners correspondingly increases. Such claims may be brought directly against our companies and/or against our customers, including PayPal merchants and Enterprise clients, whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or as a business matter. We and other technology companies have seen more of these claims from an increasing number of third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. In addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries (e.g., mobile telephony). Patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to defend and resolve, and could require us to make expensive changes in our methods of doing business, enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. Use of our services for illegal purposes could harm our business. We may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or unlawful services, or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and we (including our employees and directors of our various entities) may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. We have been subject to several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In Turkey, local prosecutors and courts are investigating our liability for allegedly illegal actions by users of our Turkish Marketplaces business (GittiGidiyor). In accordance with local law and custom they are considering indicting, and have in some cases already indicted, one or more members of the board of directors of our local Turkish subsidiary. We intend to defend vigorously against any such actions. In August 2012, we were informed that U.S. listings of footwear with religious imagery were visible on our local Indian site and we immediately removed these listings. In September 2012, a criminal case was registered against us in India in regard to these listings, and we are challenging the prosecution of this case. Also, the German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may have a duty to take reasonable measures to prevent prohibited DVDs from being sold on our site to minors and that competitors may be able to enforce this duty. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws, including anti-scalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, laws restricting or prohibiting the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of digital goods (e.g., event tickets, books, music and software), the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, customs laws, distance selling laws and the sale of items outside of the U.S. that are regulated by U.S. export controls. As we seek to reduce bad buying experiences and improve the customer experience on our sites, our level of interaction with buyers and sellers may increase over time, which could in turn increase our potential exposure to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. Although we have prohibited the listing of illegal and stolen goods and certain high-risk items and implemented other protective measures, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our business. Certain manufacturers and large retailers have sought new U.S. federal and state legislation regarding stolen goods that could limit our ability to allow sellers to use our sites without confirming the source of, and their legal rights to sell, the underlying goods. In addition, from time to time we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal goods and stolen goods using our services. This negative publicity could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names and make users reluctant to use our services. PayPal's payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music and other copyrighted or trademarked goods, money laundering, terrorist financing, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, online securities fraud and encouraging, promoting, facilitating or instructing others to engage in illegal activities. There has been an increased focus by rights owners and U.S. government officials on the role that payments systems play in the sale of, and payment for, pirated digital goods on the Internet, primarily through file sharing services. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities and additional payments-related proposals are under active consideration by government policymakers. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, illegal activities could still be funded using PayPal. Any resulting claims, liabilities or loss of transaction volume could damage our reputation and harm our business. If our Enterprise business is unable to enhance its platform and migrate clients to its new enterprise commerce platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would be substantially harmed. Our Enterprise business is in the process of enhancing and unbundling the components of its ecommerce and payments platform and continuing to migrate its existing customers to its new platform. This project is very expensive and time consuming and involves significant technical risk. Previously planned migrations of certain clients to the new platform have been delayed into the second half of 2013 and beyond. If client migrations to the new platform continue to be delayed, the functionality of the new platform is not accepted by existing Enterprise clients or prospective clients targeted by our Enterprise business, the new platform contains an unacceptable amount of design flaws or does not perform or operate as expected, or our Enterprise business fails to meet client commitments and services level agreements, our Enterprise business could continue to be subject to substantial penalties under its agreements with its clients (including significant financial penalties and termination rights for its affected clients), its relationships with its clients and their respective businesses could continue to be substantially harmed, and additional Enterprise clients may seek to terminate their contracts with our Enterprise business early based on actual or proposed breach. In addition, our Enterprise business' new enterprise commerce platform provides for substantially more client control over certain platform functionality, such as promotions and marketing, operations and performance analytics. If our Enterprise business is unable to help clients understand, assess and address their internal preparedness needs for the new platform, this could result in delays in deployment, client dissatisfaction due to lack of preparedness, degraded site performance, and additional support costs attributable to client-based issues. We believe that our Enterprise business' ability to secure new clients and retain current clients will be negatively impacted until it is able to successfully roll out the new enterprise commerce platform in live client implementations. Any of these events or circumstances could materially and adversely affect our Enterprise business. Even if accomplished successfully, this development and migration project may cost more than expected or take longer than planned, which could harm our Enterprise business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our service. The laws relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services remain unsettled in many jurisdictions. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability under a number of these theories have been brought against us, as well as other online service companies. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit, or impose liability for, the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our Marketplaces service features a Feedback Forum, which includes information from users regarding other users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could be made in the future against us for not removing content posted in the Feedback Forum. Furthermore, several court decisions arguably have narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers like us in the U.S. under the Communications Decency Act. For example, the Ninth Circuit has held that certain immunity provisions under the Communications Decency Act might not apply to the extent that a website owner materially contributes to the development of unlawful content on its website. As our websites evolve, challenges to the applicability of these immunities can be expected to continue. In addition, the Paris Court of Appeal has ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that applicable laws protecting passive Internet “hosts” from liability are inapplicable to eBay given that eBay actively promotes bidding on its sellers' listings and receives a commission on successful transactions, and is therefore a broker. The European Court of Justice decision in the L'Oréal case (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above) gave broad discretion to national courts in Europe to determine if Internet hosting immunity applies to eBay. Accordingly, our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled, may increase. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results. The increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties. A large number of transactions occur on our websites and mobile platforms on a daily basis. Government regulators have received a significant number of consumer complaints about our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise businesses, which, while small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been contacted by various U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure practices from the Federal Trade Commission and regarding these and other business practices from the attorneys general of a number of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase educational messaging to users about funding choices and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. From time to time, we face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to actions that we have taken that are designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites and we may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. For example, in 2008, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. From time to time, other regulators have requested information concerning PayPal's limitations of customer accounts. Similarly, from time to time Bill Me Later has received customer complaints that could result in investigations into Bill Me Later's business practices by state or federal regulators. As a result of the U.S. credit crisis, new laws and regulations have been, and are expected to be, adopted and implemented that impose additional obligations and restrictions on the provision of credit. We are likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, including under new or existing credit laws or regulations, relating to our business, products and services. We have responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures, operating procedures and disclosures of the relevant business. If one or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties, or forced to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. One or more of these agencies also might take action against other companies with similar businesses which could force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes. From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. These disputes and inquiries include lawsuits by our users (individually or as class actions) alleging, among other things, improper credit and/or collection activities; improper disclosure of our prices, rules or policies; that our prices, rules, policies or customer/user agreements violate applicable law; that we have not acted in conformity with such prices, rules, policies or agreements; or violations of privacy laws and policies, including violations of the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, 47 U.S.C. section 227 et seq. (TCPA). The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our company has grown larger, our businesses have expanded in scope (e.g., our mobile, local, social and digital initiatives and our continuing geographical expansion) and our products and services have increased in complexity. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the courts as our products and services to users continue to expand and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable. As an increasing portion of our business shifts to mobile, we may be subject to additional laws, which may have significant penalties. We are also subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws of general applicability, including laws regulating working conditions. Any claims or regulatory actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, damage awards (including statutory damages for certain causes of action in certain jurisdictions), injunctive relief, or increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or settlement, require us to change our business practices in expensive ways, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate. Beginning in 2009, we have transitioned buyers in the U.S., U.K. and Germany to a dispute resolution process, or resolutions, provided by eBay customer support, which now serves as the primary entry point for buyers in these countries if they are unable to resolve their disputes with eBay sellers. Among other things, the resolutions process provides that eBay will generally reimburse the buyer for the full amount of an item's purchase price (including original shipping costs) in cases where the item was not received or the item they received was different from that described in the listing and the seller does not provide adequate resolution to the buyer. eBay then attempts to recoup amounts paid to the buyer from the seller's PayPal accounts or through other collection methods. We have recently simplified the process for filing a resolutions case, which has resulted in a significant increase in the number of cases being opened. Our costs associated with resolutions have increased as a result of these changes to our resolutions policies and process, in part because eBay may not have the same level of rights of recoupment against sellers as PayPal, resulting in higher costs to operate the program. These changes, together with any additional changes that we may make to our resolutions process in the future, may be negatively received by, and lead to dissatisfaction on the part of, some of our sellers, and may also result in an increase in buyer fraud and associated transaction losses. In the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise or concert tickets, custom-made goods and subscriptions), eBay and/or PayPal could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, either through its buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payment through PayPal. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may be insufficient and our operating results could be adversely affected. Failure to deal effectively with bad transactions and customer disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our business. Over the last several years, we have enhanced the buyer and seller protections offered by PayPal in certain eBay marketplaces, and in certain countries for transactions outside of eBay marketplaces. These changes to PayPal's buyer and seller protection program could result in future changes and fluctuations in our Payments transaction loss rate. For the year ended December 31, 2012 and the six months ended June 30, 2013, our Payments transaction losses (including both direct losses and buyer protection payouts) totaled $281 million and $171 million, representing 0.19% and 0.20% of our net total payment volume, respectively. Beginning in 2009, we have also changed the dispute resolution process for transactions for buyers in the U.S., U.K. and Germany (on eBay.com, eBay.co.uk and eBay.de, respectively), as described in more detail above under the caption “Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate,” which could result in an increase in our combined eBay and PayPal transaction losses. PayPal's highly automated and liquid payment service makes PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using stolen payment card or bank account numbers can potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal's current and former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone out of business or significantly restricted their businesses largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent PayPal's anti-fraud systems using increasingly sophisticated methods. From time to time, such fraudsters may discover and exploit vulnerabilities that may not immediately be identified and remediated, which may in turn result in one-time increases in fraud and associated transaction losses, which may be substantial. In addition, because users frequently use the same passwords for different sites, a data breach of a third party site can result in a spike in eBay and/or PayPal transaction losses. PayPal's service could also be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches. Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud. Additional fraud risks associated with PayPal's point of sale solutions are described below under the caption “PayPal's retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks.” PayPal incurs substantial losses due to claims from buyers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant's description, whether those claims arise from merchant fraud or from an unintentional failure to perform by the merchant. PayPal seeks to recover such losses from the merchant, but may not be able to recover in full if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from erroneous transmissions and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. In addition, if losses incurred by PayPal related to payment card transactions become excessive, they could potentially result in PayPal losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would materially and adversely affect PayPal's business both on and off eBay. In the event that PayPal was unable to accept payment cards, the velocity of trade on eBay and off eBay (i.e., other websites that accept PayPal as a form of payment) could also decrease, in which case our business would further suffer. The Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, users of the Bill Me Later service and third parties handling its user information. Our Payments business has taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business will suffer. eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from users who may not have received the goods that they had purchased. In some cases, individuals have been arrested and convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay also receives complaints from sellers who have not received payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the item, or because the buyer bid on the item maliciously to harm either the seller or eBay. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While eBay can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through its buyer protection program. Our eBay and PayPal buyer protection programs represent the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased, or have received an item different than what was described. However, users who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their payment card company or bank, which in turn will seek recovery from PayPal. eBay also periodically receives complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is slowly beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for third-party actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our Marketplaces, Payments and Enterprise services could reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand names. We believe that negative user experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using our services. From time to time, we have considered more active mechanisms designed to combat bad buyer experiences and increase buyer satisfaction, including evaluating sellers on the basis of their transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity as a result. For example, in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada, we may request that PayPal hold seller funds in certain instances (e.g., for sellers with a limited selling history or below-standard performance ratings), which is intended to help improve seller performance and increase buyer satisfaction. We may expand the scope of such programs in the future and introduce other programs with similar aims in these and other countries. Our increased usage of these or other mechanisms to attempt to improve buyer satisfaction could result in dissatisfaction on the part of sellers, loss of share to competing marketplaces, reduced selection of inventory on our sites and other adverse effects. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade could harm our business. Cross-border trade has become an increasingly important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border transactions using our websites and mobile platforms generally provide higher revenues and gross margins than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. We generally earn higher transaction fees for cross-border transactions involving PayPal, and our Marketplaces business continues to represent a relatively straightforward way for buyers and sellers to engage in cross-border trade compared with other alternatives. Cross-border trade also represents our primary (or in some cases, only) presence in certain markets in which Internet and mobile device use is accelerating and we have a limited (or no) domestic Marketplaces business (e.g., Brazil/Latin America, China, Russia and various other countries). The interpretation and application of specific national or regional laws, such as those related to intellectual property rights of authentic products, selective distribution networks, and sellers in other countries listing items on the Internet, and the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the buyer, the seller, and/or the location of the item being sold) are extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. Some of these issues are involved in the L'Oréal and Louis Vuitton Malletier cases (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above). To the extent any interpretation or application of such laws imposes restrictions on, or increases the costs of, purchasing, selling or shipping goods across national borders, our business would be harmed. Any additional factors that increase the costs of purchasing, selling or shipping goods across national borders or restrict, delay or make cross-border trade more difficult or impractical, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, currency restrictions, increases in postal or delivery service rates or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions, import or export control laws, the application of (or increases in) tariffs, duties or other taxes on imports or exports, customs enforcement (including delays at the border attributable to customs inspections), enforcement of international intellectual property rights by rights holders or court rulings, or that otherwise result in a net reduction in cross-border trade on our sites would lower our revenues and adversely affect our business. As part of our ongoing efforts to drive more transactions and improve seller efficiency and buyer experience, we are evaluating opportunities to become more actively involved in different aspects of cross-border transactions, which could potentially expose us to additional liability based upon the nature of our involvement in aspects of such transactions and/or the actions of our users in one or more countries. Our cross-border trade is also subject to, and may be impacted by, currency exchange rate fluctuations, as discussed under the caption “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates” above. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users' proprietary information, and security breaches could result in the loss or misuse of this information, which could expose us to litigation and potential liability. An increasing number of websites, including several other large Internet companies, have disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users' proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, for example, actions by a suborned employee. Enterprise clients also face similar risks of security breaches, and to the extent that such clients are harmed as a result of a security breach, our Enterprise business would also be adversely affected. A significant number of our users authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all transaction and other fees charged by us. For example, PayPal's users routinely provide payment card and other financial information, and Enterprise customers routinely provide payment card information and other personally identifiable information which we maintain to facilitate the ease of future transactions. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer payment card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Financial services regulators in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. and the EU, have implemented or are considering proposals to impose new authentication requirements on banks and payment processors intended to reduce online fraud (e.g., two-factor authentication to verify a user's identity), which could impose significant costs on PayPal, require PayPal to change its business practices, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the ease of use of its products, which could harm PayPal's business. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by PayPal's direct payment card processing customers, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if customer information has not been compromised, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our businesses would be seriously damaged. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have, in certain instances, made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. For example, in December 2010, PayPal was subject to a series of distributed “denial of service” attacks following PayPal's decision to indefinitely restrict the account used by WikiLeaks due to an alleged violation of PayPal's Acceptable Use Policy. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult and costly as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breaches of our security measures or those of parties with which we have commercial relationships (e.g., our clients and third-party service providers) that result in the unauthorized release of users' personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate user names, passwords, payment card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users' computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay, PayPal, StubHub, one of our other businesses, a user of one of our businesses, or an Enterprise client, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information through email or download malware. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” activities remain a serious problem that may damage our brands, discourage use of our websites and increase our costs. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users, especially for financial information and for users located outside of the U.S. As an entity licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg, PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l et Cie, SCA is subject to banking secrecy laws. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. In particular, the collection and use of personal information by companies has come under increased regulatory scrutiny. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country. Regulatory scrutiny of privacy and user data protection is increasing on a global basis, and a number of countries in which we operate are actively evaluating changes to their privacy laws and regulations. The European Union has proposed new data laws that give customers additional rights and provide additional restrictions and harsher penalties on companies for illegal collection and misuse of personal information, including restrictions on the use of Internet tracking tools called “cookies.” While the European Union directive on cookies has taken effect, the manner in which member states adopt implementing legislation, and whether the European Union deems that legislation sufficient, continues to evolve. To the extent implementing legislation by member states is more restrictive, it could negatively impact the manner in which we use cookies for many of our services, ranging from advertising to anti-fraud, and require us to incur additional costs or change our business practices, which could harm our business. The European Union has also proposed a General Data Protection Regulation that would supersede the European Data Protection Directive. In the U.S., the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the White House have both proposed U.S. privacy frameworks, and in 2012, legislation was introduced in the U.S. Senate which would have required organizations that suffer a breach of security related to personal information to notify owners of the breached information and, in some instances, notify the Federal Bureau of Investigation or U.S. Secret Service; similar legislation may be introduced and enacted in the future. Other countries in which we operate have recently adopted and implemented privacy and data protection laws and regulations for the first time, or are in the process of doing so. Our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with new laws and regulations or evolving interpretations and applications. It is unclear how the application of existing privacy laws and regulations will impact mobile services and technologies, which are evolving rapidly. Complying with these varying national requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. In addition, we have, and post on our websites, our own privacy policies and practices, concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations (or, in the case of our Enterprise businesses, any such failure or perceived failure on the part of our Enterprise business or its clients) could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action privacy litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. The FTC and state regulatory agencies have become more aggressive in enforcing privacy and data protection laws and regulations. For example, in 2012, the FTC entered into a number of consent decrees with a number of major online companies, including Facebook and Google, to settle allegations of unfair or deceptive privacy practices. The FTC's consent decrees with Facebook and Google require each of those companies to implement a comprehensive privacy program and undergo regular, independent privacy audits for 20 years, among other requirements. In December 2012, California's attorney general filed a lawsuit against Delta Air Lines for failing to include a privacy policy in its mobile applications. Certain of our businesses, including our Enterprise interactive marketing services business, utilize “behavioral marketing” (generally, the tracking of a user's online activities) to deliver relevant content to Internet users. The FTC has released a Staff Report with principles to address consumer privacy issues that may arise from behavioral marketing and to encourage industry self-regulation. In March 2012, the FTC issued a final report titled “Protecting Consumer Privacy in an Era of Rapid Change: Recommendations for Businesses and Policymakers,” which details the FTC's perspective on best practices for companies that collect and use consumer data to protect the privacy of consumers. Should the FTC pursue enforcement actions related to these business practices, we may have to modify our business practices to conform and incur substantial costs, which could harm our business. The legislative and regulatory environment around mobile data collection continues to evolve. Legislators and regulators in various jurisdictions are increasingly focusing on the capture and use of location-based information relating to users of smartphones and other mobile devices. Any legislation or regulations restricting or limiting the collection or use of mobile data (including the type of information that may be collected from mobile devices and/or how such information may be collected and used) could, if enacted, prohibit the use of certain technologies, including those that track individuals' activities on the Internet or geolocation via mobile devices, and/or restrict or limit our ability to collect and use page viewing data and personal information, which may reduce demand for our services or require changes to our current business models, such as advertising, which could harm our business. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with new mobile regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations pertaining to mobile data collection or mobile devices could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action privacy litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Even technical violations of certain privacy-related laws can result in significant penalties, including statutory damages. The Federal Communications Commission amended its regulations effective July 2012 under the TCPA, and has promulgated additional amendments, effective October 2013, which could increase our exposure to liability for certain types of telephonic communication with customers, including but not limited to text messages to mobile phones. Under the TCPA, plaintiffs may seek actual monetary loss or statutory damages of $500 per violation, whichever is greater, and courts may treble the damage award for willful or knowing violations. Two putative class-action lawsuits have been filed containing allegations that our businesses violated the TCPA. Roberts v. PayPal (filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California in February 2012) contains allegations that commercial advertisements for PayPal products and services were sent via text message to mobile phones without prior consent. In May 2013, the Court granted PayPal's Motion for Summary Judgment challenging the viability of plaintiff's individual claim on grounds that plaintiff consented to receive the text message entered judgment in favor of PayPal. Plaintiff has filed a notice of appeal of this judgment. Murray v. Bill Me Later (filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of Illinois in June 2012) contains allegations that Bill Me Later made calls featuring artificial or prerecorded voices without prior consent. These lawsuits, and other private lawsuits not currently alleged as class actions, seek damages (including statutory damages) and injunctive relief, among other remedies. Given the enormous number of communications we send to our users, a determination that there have been violations of laws relating to PayPal's or Bill Me Later's practices (or those of any of our other companies) under the TCPA or other communications-based statutes could expose us to significant damage awards that could, individually or in the aggregate, materially harm our business. Data collection, privacy and security have become the subject of increasing public concern. If Internet and mobile users were to reduce their use of our websites, mobile platforms, products and services as a result, our business could be harmed. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Our revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our control. We derive significant revenue from advertising on our websites and applications. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such as general changes in the economy and changes in consumer spending, the effectiveness of online advertising versus offline advertising media and the value our websites provide to advertisers relative to other websites. The economic downturn adversely impacted our advertising revenue. In addition, major search engine operators (e.g., Google) have the ability to change from time to time, at their sole discretion, the rules and search algorithms governing the pricing, availability and placement of online advertising, and do so periodically. For example, changes by Google since October 2012 have significantly reduced the amount of traffic our Marketplaces business receives from free search on Google. Any further changes in these rules or search algorithms could materially reduce the value that we derive from online advertising on our websites, either directly or indirectly. For example, retailers pay a fee to us for online shoppers directed to their websites by the eBay Commerce Network, which consists of the Shopping.com websites and their distribution network. Rule changes made by search engines beginning in 2008 disrupted traffic to our Shopping.com websites, which in turn adversely affected click-through traffic to retailers from our Shopping.com websites and associated fee revenue. In addition, legislators and regulators in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. and the European Union, are reviewing Internet advertising models and the use of user-related data, including location-based information relating to users of smartphones and other mobile devices, and are considering proposals that could restrict or otherwise impact these business models and practices. If we experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to economic, competitive, regulatory, technological or other factors, the renegotiation of our contracts with major advertising companies on unfavorable terms, or a reduction in our ability to effectively place advertisements on our websites, or are otherwise unable to provide value to our advertisers, our business and financial results would suffer. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require a continued focus on active marketing efforts across all of our brands. We will need to continue to spend substantial amounts of money on, and devote substantial resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Since 2005, we have significantly increased the number of brands we are supporting, adding our classified websites (including Den Blå Avis, BilBasen, eBay Classifieds (including eBay Anuncios, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), GittiGidiyor, Gumtree, Kijiji, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl, mobile.de, alaMaula and 2dehands.be), StubHub, Bill Me Later, Gmarket, Milo, WHERE, RedLaser, Zong, Enterprise and eBay Now, among others. Each of these brands requires its own resources, increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. Also, major search engine operators that we use to advertise our brands have frequently changing rules that govern the pricing, availability and placement of online advertisements (e.g., paid search, keywords), and changes to these rules could require us to increase our spending on online advertisements and adversely affect our ability to use online advertising to promote our brands in a cost-effective manner. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business would be harmed. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, consumer protection, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity and personal privacy apply to online businesses such as ours. Many of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the U.S. “CAN-SPAM” Act and the European Union's Distance Selling Directive (which will be superseded by the new Consumer Rights Directive, which the member states are in the process of implementing) and Electronic Commerce Directive are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. As our activities, the types of goods and services listed on our websites, the products and services we offer (including through acquisitions such as Bill Me Later and StubHub) and our geographical scope continue to expand, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to additional requirements (including licensure) or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions (e.g., the sale of real estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats and automobiles, or the application of distance selling laws). Recent financial and political events may increase the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies in general, and financial services companies in particular, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our businesses. Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing businesses that perceive our business models to be a threat to their businesses to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators. These businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. In particular, these established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. Any changes to the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Over the last few years, some large retailers and their trade associations have sought legislation in a number of states and the U.S. Congress that would make eBay liable for the sale of stolen property or would ban certain categories of goods from sale on our platform, including gift cards and health and beauty products. While no such legislation has passed to date, the proponents continue to seek passage of such legislation, and if any of these laws are adopted they could harm our business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, where our headquarters are located, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions have attempted to impose such regulations upon us or our users, and others may attempt to do so in the future. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing. In France, we were sued by Conseil des Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority, which has alleged that sales on our French website constitute illegal auctions that cannot be performed without its consent. We won this lawsuit. A lawsuit alleging similar claims has been brought against us by two associations of French antique dealers, and is now pending on appeal after we won in the first instance. We intend to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. However, these and other regulatory and licensure claims and enforcement actions could result in costly litigation and, if unsuccessful, we could be required to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues (for example, by forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items or restrict certain listing formats in some locations). We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder's consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we may become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, in the Louis Vuitton Malletier litigation, we were found liable in France, under French law, for transactions on some of our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers or sellers (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above). Laws regulating Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the U.S. are generally less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, competitors, users and other third parties. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on us or our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us (e.g., in cross-border trade). Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. Following the global financial crisis, U.S. federal lawmakers enacted the Dodd-Frank Act overhauling the federal government's oversight of consumer financial products and systemic risk in the U.S. financial system.  Although the full effect of the new legislation will be dependent on regulations to be adopted by a number of different agencies (including the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau), we expect the general effect of the financial reform law will be to require PayPal and Bill Me Later to make additional disclosures to their users and to impose new restrictions on certain of their activities.  For example, in January 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau finalized new regulations, required by the Dodd-Frank Act that will require PayPal, starting in October 2013, to provide additional disclosures, error resolution rights and cancellation rights to U.S. consumers who make international remittance payments, which could increase our costs of processing international payments. The Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has also launched a complaints portal on its website that allows customers to file complaints against PayPal and other money transfer service providers, and publishes information on such complaints. These and other new obligations will impose new compliance requirements and obligations on us that could increase our costs, may result in increased litigation and the need to make expensive product changes and may otherwise adversely impact our business. In addition, we also expect that the continued implementation of the Dodd-Frank Act will adversely impact some significant traditional revenue streams for banks. For example, in June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule capping debit card interchange fees. As a result of this and other regulations implementing the financial reform law, banks may need to revise their business models to remain profitable, which may lead them to charge more for services which were previously provided for free or at lower cost. Any resulting increases in service fees required for PayPal to process transactions (e.g., service fees for automated clearing house transactions) would increase our costs and could adversely affect our business. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, governments are increasingly looking for ways to increase revenues, which has resulted in discussions about tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenues, including through indirect taxes. Some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of ecommerce. For example, the State of New York has passed legislation that requires any out-of-state seller of tangible personal property to collect and remit New York use tax if the seller engages affiliates above certain financial thresholds in New York to perform certain business promotion activities. In March 2013, the New York Court of Appeals (New York State's highest court) upheld this legislation in Amazon.com, LLC and Overstock.com, Inc. v. New York State Department of Taxation and Finance. It is not known at this point whether Amazon.com, LLC or Overstock.com, Inc. will appeal this decision. In September 2012, California enacted a new law which is similar to the law passed in New York, but provides exclusions for certain forms of Internet marketing and is limited to retailers who exceed prescribed sales volume thresholds. However, if our sellers who are not already required to collect California sales or use tax believe that their use of our websites requires them to collect California use tax, they may elect to limit their use of our websites rather than collect the tax, which would harm our business. Several other states have also enacted similar laws related to affiliates, and a number of other states are considering similar legislation. In addition, the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue has ruled that an out-of-state retailer using Pennsylvania-based affiliates could have nexus in Pennsylvania under existing statutes. Most of these new laws and positions are being challenged and in May 2012, a Cook County Circuit Court judge ruled that the Illinois Internet Affiliate Nexus Law was unconstitutional. The State of Illinois has filed a direct appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court. The adoption of such legislation by states where eBay has significant operations that perform certain business promotion activities could result in a use tax collection responsibility for certain of our sellers. This collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements would make selling on our websites and mobile platforms less attractive for small business retailers, and would harm our business. The State of Colorado has enacted legislation that takes a different approach by imposing a set of use tax notice and reporting requirements (but not the actual tax collection responsibility) on certain retailers with no physical presence in Colorado. The law is designed to aid Colorado in collecting use tax from Colorado residents who purchase taxable items from out-of-state retailers. The regulation promulgated by the Colorado Department of Revenue excludes from these reporting obligations businesses that sell $100,000 or less into the state in a calendar year, thus limiting the impact on our sellers. The law has been challenged in Federal Court by a number of out-of-state retailers and a Federal District Court has issued an injunction blocking enforcement of the regulations pending a resolution of the case. In March 2012, a federal judge struck down the Colorado law as unconstitutional, finding that it discriminated against interstate commerce, and the State of Colorado has not appealed this decision. Oklahoma has enacted a similar law but has not taken any published enforcement action to date. While the application of these new state laws to our Marketplaces business has limited direct impact, the proliferation of such state legislation to expand sales and use tax collection on Internet sales, could adversely affect some of our sellers and indirectly harm our business. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project - an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state and local governments to require collection and remittance of remote sales tax by out-of-state sellers - U.S. Senate and U.S. House versions of the Marketplace Fairness Act (S. 336 and H.R. 684) were introduced in the 113th Congress in 2013. The U.S. Senate passed S. 336 on May 6, 2013 with bipartisan support and H.R. 684 has been referred to the House Judiciary Committee for review. If enacted into law, these measures would allow states that meet certain simplification and other standards to require out-of-stat sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. It is expected that some sellers, meeting an as yet undefined small seller exception, would be excluded from the requirements of the Act. The adoption of remote sales tax collection legislation that lacks a robust small business exemption would result in the imposition of sales taxes and additional costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on many of our sellers. This would make selling online less attractive for small retailers, and would likely harm our business. From time to time, some taxing authorities have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes. In May 2008, the City of Chicago notified both eBay and StubHub that they are liable for a city amusement tax on tickets to events in Chicago, irrespective of the location of the buyer or seller, and filed suit to enforce collection of taxes it claims are due. In a series of rulings issued in 2009, the court ruled that StubHub is not required to collect and remit the city amusement tax, entered a final order dismissing the case against StubHub, and dismissed the case against eBay. The City of Chicago appealed both matters to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals, which subsequently certified the state law arguments to the Illinois State Supreme Court. In October 2011, the Illinois Supreme Court ruled that state municipalities may not require electronic intermediaries such as StubHub to collect and remit amusement taxes on resold tickets. That decision is now final. The application of similar existing or future laws, including the imposition of similar taxes by taxing authorities, could adversely affect our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local levels that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. The U.S. federal government's moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce has been extended through November 2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. Similar issues exist outside of the U.S., where the application of VAT or other indirect taxes on ecommerce providers such as eBay is uncertain and evolving. While we attempt to comply in those jurisdictions where it is clear that a tax is due, certain of our subsidiaries have, from time to time, received claims relating to the applicability of indirect taxes to our fees.  In April 2012, we received Notices of Reassessments for tax years 2001-2005 from the Canadian Revenue Agency (CRA) which assert goods and service tax (GST) and harmonized sales tax (HST) on our fees charged to Canadian users. These reassessments of GST/HST were the result of an audit of eBay International AG and are based on the CRA's assertion that we were “doing business” in Canada for GST/HST purposes. We disagreed with the reassessments and filed a Notice of Appeal with the Tax Court of Canada in July 2012. Earlier this year the CRA asked us to settle this matter with no tax due and in June 2013 we received reassessments showing that no tax was due. Should such taxes become applicable, our business could be harmed. We collect and remit indirect taxes in certain jurisdictions. However, tax authorities may raise questions about our obligation to collect and remit such taxes, as well as the proper calculation of such taxes. For example, the Korean tax authority asserted that certain coupons and incentives available on our sites should not be deducted when computing taxes on our fees. We challenged these assessments and in June 2012, the National Tax Tribunal issued a final ruling in our favor with respect to item incentives from June 2006 onward. The assessments on coupons and incentives up to May 2006 are being reviewed by the Seoul High Court following the lower court's ruling in our favor in January 2013. Should any new taxes become applicable to our fees or if the taxes we pay are found to be deficient, our business could be harmed. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. One or more states or the federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been contemplated by several states and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if an eBay company was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which eBay operates. In July 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221) was signed into law. This law contains provisions that require companies that provide payments over electronic means to users to report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) information on payments received by certain customers. The legislation, effective for payments received after December 31, 2010, requires PayPal and other electronic payments processors, as well as StubHub and similar companies, to report to the IRS on customers subject to U.S. income tax who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a calendar year. This requires us to request tax ID numbers from certain payees, track payments by tax ID number and, under certain conditions, withhold a portion of payments and forward such withholding to the IRS. We have had to modify our software to meet these requirements and expect increased operational costs and changes to our user experience in connection with complying with these reporting obligations. The IRS regulations also require us to collect a certification of non-U.S. taxpayer status from certain international merchants. The Foreign Account Tax Compliance Act, which took effect at the start of 2013, is likely to require an increase in the number of non-U.S. customers from whom we must obtain a similar certification, and to increase the compliance burdens on us. These requirements may decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. Any failure by us to meet these new requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. One or more other jurisdictions may also seek to impose tax collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Imposition of a discriminatory record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Foreign authorities may also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from, or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify eBay's obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting requirements could harm our users and our business. There has been an increased interest by certain governing and regulatory bodies as well as the international press, especially in Europe, in the tax affairs of multinational and ecommerce companies. While this increased scrutiny has not resulted in any changes in the way taxes are imposed, it could lead to changes in laws or critical investigations of our operations and structure in the future. This could lead to additional tax costs and harm our business. Bill Me Later's operations expose us to additional risks. Risks associated with our reliance on an unaffiliated lender in providing the Bill Me Later service are discussed in more detail under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above. The Bill Me Later service relies on third-party merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. For the year ended December 31, 2012 and the six months ended June 30, 2013, approximately 62% and 61%, respectively, of all transaction volume by dollar amount through the Bill Me Later service was settled through the facilities of a single vendor. Any disruption to these third party payment processing and gateway services would adversely affect the Bill Me Later service. The Bill Me Later service is offered to a wide range of consumers, and the financial success of this business depends on the ability of the issuing bank of the Bill Me Later credit products to manage credit risk related to those products. The lender extends credit using Bill Me Later's proprietary segmentation and credit scoring algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific customers based on their past purchasing and payment history as well as their credit scores. Based on these performance criteria, the lender may extend or increase lines of credit to consumers at the point of sale. These algorithms and techniques may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer due to inaccurate assumptions about a particular consumer or the economic environment, among other factors. The accuracy of the predictions and the ability of the lender and Bill Me Later to manage credit risk related to the Bill Me Later service may also be affected by legal or regulatory changes (e.g., bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations), competitors' actions, changes in consumer behavior and other factors. The lender may incorrectly interpret the data produced by these algorithms in setting its credit policies, which may impact the financial performance of the Bill Me Later service. In addition, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. may affect consumer confidence levels and reduce consumers' ability or willingness to use credit, including the credit extended by the lender to consumers who use the Bill Me Later service, which could impair the growth and profitability of this business. Over the past several years, the volume of credit extended by WebBank (the financial institution issuing the Bill Me Later credit products) has increased as we have continued to enable qualified buyers with a PayPal account to use Bill Me Later as a payment funding option for transactions on eBay.com and on certain merchant websites that accept PayPal. We purchase the receivables relating to these consumer loans extended by the issuing bank, and therefore bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer credit, the Bill Me Later service faces the risk that account holders will default on their payment obligations with respect to the consumer loans, making the receivables uncollectible and creating the risk of potential charge-offs. The rate at which receivables were charged off as uncollectible, or the net charge-off rate, was approximately 4.81% and 5.46%, respectively, for the year ended December 31, 2012 and the six months ended June 30, 2013. The nonpayment rate among Bill Me Later users may increase due to, among other things, changes to underwriting standards by Bill Me Later and the financial institution issuing the Bill Me Later credit products, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession or greater austerity in the U.S., and high unemployment rates. Consumers who miss payments on their obligations often fail to repay them, and consumers who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their credit. We fund the purchase of receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts through borrowings and domestic and international cash resources. If we are unable to fund our purchase of receivables related to the Bill Me Later business adequately or in a cost-effective manner, the growth and profitability of this business would be significantly and adversely affected. Additionally, in providing the Bill Me Later service, we face other risks similar to those faced by PayPal described elsewhere in these Risk Factors, including under the captions “Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties,” “If our Payments business is found to be subject to a number of laws and regulations, including those governing banking, money transmission, and payment services that vary in the markets where we operate, and any violations of such laws and regulations could subject us to liability, licensure and regulatory approval, and may force us to change our business practices,” and “If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any consumer protection laws or regulations or to have violated criminal statutes or regulations, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices.” PayPal's retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks. PayPal has announced several retail point of sale solutions, including PayPal Here, which enables merchants to use a card reader attached to a mobile device (or to scan cards and checks using the device's embedded camera) to accept payment, as well as in-store pilot programs for new point of sale technologies, which have been rolled out to certain retailers in the U.S. As PayPal continues to expand into point of sale transactions, PayPal will face even greater expectations from offline retailers regarding the reliability and availability of its systems and services and correspondingly lower amounts of downtime. PayPal's retail point of sale solutions may also be targeted by fraudsters and given that our fraud models are less developed in this area, we may experience increases in fraud and associated transaction losses as we adjust to fraudulent activity at the point of sale. The manufacturing and sale of a hardware product (the PayPal Here device) exposes us to potential product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability, and could require product recalls or other actions. PayPal's point of sale solutions also may subject us to increased exposure to other laws and regulations (e.g., export control regulations related to the shipment of the PayPal Here reader across national borders). There is significant competition at the retail point of sale, and there can be no assurance that merchants will adopt, or consumers will use, PayPal's retail point of sale solutions. Retail point of sale transactions also have lower profit margins than PayPal's other payment solutions. Unless we are able to drive adoption of, and significant volume through, our retail point of sale solutions over time, our business may suffer. Changes in PayPal's funding mix could adversely affect PayPal's results. PayPal pays significant transaction fees when customers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when customers fund payments with debit cards, nominal fees when customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or through the Bill Me Later service, or use buyer credit issued by GE Money Bank. Customers fund a significant portion of PayPal's payment volume using credit and debit cards, and PayPal's financial success will remain highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its customers fund payments using credit and debit cards. Customers may prefer funding payment transactions using credit cards or debit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of reasons, including the ability to dispute and reverse charges directly with their payment card provider if merchandise is not delivered or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles, cash rebates, or other incentives offered by payment card issuers, the ability to defer payment, or a reluctance to provide bank account information to PayPal. In addition, some of PayPal's offerings, including the ability for buyers to make a limited number of payments without opening a PayPal account, have a higher rate of payment card funding than PayPal's basic product offering. Some of PayPal's plans to lower its funding costs, including both the Bill Me Later service and the ability for buyers to defer payment for a short period of time on some transactions, may increase the risk to PayPal of nonpayment by buyers. PayPal's failure to manage customer funds properly could harm its business. PayPal's ability to manage and account accurately for customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and limited experience in managing these internal controls. As PayPal's business continues to grow, it must continue to strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal's success requires significant public confidence in its ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to manage customer funds accurately could severely diminish customer use of PayPal's products. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services will reduce our current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and profits and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to 22 hours. In April 2012, technical systems issues resulted in eBay.com users being unable to checkout on our sites for a period of several hours. Our PayPal website has suffered intermittent unavailability for periods as long as five days, including unavailability for approximately three hours affecting payments primarily on our ebay.co.uk site in May 2011. Other of our websites (e.g., StubHub, Milo and others), as well as websites of Enterprise clients and hosted services offered by Enterprise's interactive marketing services business, have experienced intermittent unavailability from time to time. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues, as well as potential service credits or other payments by our Enterprise business to its clients. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical for PayPal, which faces increased expectations on the part of users and merchants regarding the full-time availability of PayPal's services as it seeks to expand its Merchant Services business and gain acceptance of its retail point of sale solutions. Because PayPal is a regulated financial institution, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to significant fines and penalties, or mandatory and costly changes to PayPal's business practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because many of our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers and their businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, human error, hardware or software defects or malfunctions (including defects or malfunctions of components of our systems that are supplied by third-party service providers), and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems, including our Shopping.com websites and the systems related to the Bill Me Later business, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions and delays, and result in loss of critical data and lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. If we are unable to cost-effectively upgrade and expand our websites, services and platforms, our business would suffer. We must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our websites and platforms, and the new products and features we regularly introduce. As our PayPal business continues to grow and expand both in terms of geographies and product offerings (e.g., PayPal's retail point of sale solutions), we are focused on updating our PayPal platform to provide increased scale, improved performance and additional built-in functionality addressing regulatory compliance matters (e.g., anti-money laundering and terrorist financing). This upgrade process is expensive and time-consuming, and the increased complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology, features, transaction processing systems, security infrastructure, or network infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume or changes to our site functionality could harm our business. Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer support, impaired quality of users' experiences of our services, impaired quality of services for third-party application developers using our externally accessible application programming interfaces and delays in reporting accurate financial information, and could result in customer dissatisfaction and the loss of existing users on our websites. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do so could result in problems on our sites. Further, steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, could reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. Risks associated with our ongoing efforts to enhance and unbundle the components of our Enterprise business' new enterprise commerce platform and to migrate existing Enterprise clients to the new platform are discussed in more detail under the caption “If our Enterprise business is unable to enhance its platform and migrate clients to its new platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would be substantially harmed” above. There are many risks associated with our international operations. Our international expansion has been rapid and our international business, especially in Germany, the U.K. and Korea, has also become critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 52%, of our net revenues in both the year ended December 31, 2012 and the six months ended June 30, 2013. Expansion into international markets, such as our entry into Turkey in May 2011 upon the completion of our acquisition of additional shares in GittiGidiyor, and Marketplaces' and PayPal's entry into emerging markets, is an increasing focus of our business. Geographical expansion requires significant management attention and resources and requires us to localize our services to conform to local cultures, laws, regulations, standards, policies and practices. The commercial, financial, Internet, and transportation infrastructure in developing countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our business models. Some of these developing countries may have legal regimes in which the application of laws and regulations in the online or mobile context is subject to greater uncertainty, as well as a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent or unethical business practices, than countries in which we are historically accustomed to operating. In many countries, we compete with local companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew our eBay marketplace offering from the Japanese market. In 2007, we contributed our business in China to a joint venture with a local Chinese company; we terminated this joint venture in 2012. Even if we are successful in developing new markets, we often expect the costs of operating new sites to exceed our net revenues from those sites for at least 12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand our businesses internationally, including through acquisitions and joint ventures, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: strong local competitors; regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet and mobile services, auctioneering, professional selling, distance selling, privacy and data protection, banking and money transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain categories of goods, require product changes, require special licensure, subject us to various taxes, penalties or audits, or limit the transfer of information between us and our affiliates; customs and duties, including the possibility of cumbersome shipping and delivery logistics, significant delays at the border due to customs inspections and the possibility that our services may be viewed as facilitating customs fraud by governmental authorities; greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings and other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a result of unique local laws, conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; risks associated with cross-border transactions, including those described under the risk factor caption “Any factors that reduce cross-border trade could harm our business,” above; potentially higher incidence of fraud and corruption and higher credit and transaction loss risks; cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, trading or payments over the Internet or through mobile devices; laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses; difficulties in integrating with local payment providers, including banks, credit and debit card networks and electronic fund transfer systems; differing levels of retail distribution, shipping and Internet and mobile infrastructures; different employee/employer relationships and labor laws, and the existence of workers' councils and labor unions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; challenges associated with joint venture relationships and minority investments, including dependence on our joint venture partners; difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; longer payment cycles, different accounting practices and greater problems in collecting accounts receivable; potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation of our fees or of transactions on our websites; higher Internet service provider or mobile network operator costs; differing intellectual property laws; different and more stringent consumer protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; seasonal reductions in business activity; expenses associated with localizing our products and services, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; our ability to repatriate funds from abroad without adverse tax consequences; the possibility that foreign governments may impose currency controls or other restrictions on the repatriation of funds; volatility in a specific country's or region's political, economic or military conditions (e.g., in South Korea relating to North Korea); and challenges associated with maintaining relationships with local law enforcement and related agencies. Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we also could become subject to increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and repatriating money without adverse tax consequences, as well as increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on our business is discussed in more detail under the caption “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates” above. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act and U.K. Bribery Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and antitrust and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brands, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product development, customer support and other operations, in regions outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which reduce the anticipated benefits associated with providing these functions outside of the U.S., including cost efficiencies and productivity improvements, could adversely affect our business. We maintain a portion of our research and development facilities and personnel in Israel, and have acquired other Israeli companies. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect those operations. Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed hostilities between Israel and neighboring countries or other entities could make it more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of employees due to military service, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a significant number of businesses, technologies, services and products. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks. Some of the areas where we may face risks or difficulties include: the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is itself an inherently risky process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented; and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise in connection with integration; diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration, particularly given the number, size and varying scope of our recent acquisitions; declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition may have lacked such controls, procedures and policies; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets and doing business internationally, including those described under the risk factor caption “There are many risks associated with our international operations” above; difficulties in entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; the potential loss of key customers, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of our acquisition plans; in some cases, the need to transition operations, users and customers onto our existing or new platforms; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; the potential loss of key employees following the acquisition; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information, which in and of itself may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure; and for investments in which an investee's results of operations and financial condition are incorporated into our financial statements, either in full or in part, the dependence on the investee's accounting, financial reporting and similar systems, controls and processes. It may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits, such as increased revenue and enhanced efficiencies, of any or all of our acquisitions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Future acquisitions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. In addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Our strategic investments may expose us to additional risks. For example, we have a minority interest in Intershop Communications AG, an entity governed by German law, which could subject us to liability for certain disadvantages to Intershop if we were deemed to be in control of Intershop under German law. We have also been sued by craigslist, which has alleged that we improperly misused confidential information from craigslist that we received as a minority investor. The complaint alleges breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unfair competition and false advertising and seeks compensatory and punitive damages, rescission and other relief. Our Enterprise business exposes us to additional risks. Our Enterprise business (which consists of GSI Commerce, Inc. (GSI Commerce), which we acquired in June 2011), faces certain risks and challenges not shared by our other businesses, including those described under the risk factor captions “If our Enterprise business is unable to enhance its platform and migrate clients to its new platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would be substantially harmed” and “Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business.” Competition for Enterprise's existing and potential clients is intense, and our Enterprise business may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. For example, a change in the management of an Enterprise client could adversely affect our relationship with that client. In addition, many of Enterprise's client contracts contain service level commitments. If our Enterprise business is unable to meet these commitments, its relationships with its clients could be damaged, and client rights to terminate their contracts with our Enterprise business and/or financial penalty provisions payable by our Enterprise business may be triggered. If any existing Enterprise clients (in particular, the large merchants and brands that our Enterprise business serves) were to exit the business we provide services to, be acquired, declare bankruptcy, suffer other financial difficulties, fail to pay amounts owed to our Enterprise business and/or terminate or modify their relationships with our Enterprise business in an unfavorable manner, our Enterprise business could be adversely affected. A portion of Enterprise's ecommerce services revenue is derived from the value of ecommerce transactions that flow through its ecommerce services business. Accordingly, growth in Enterprise's ecommerce services revenue depends upon the continued growth of the online businesses of its clients. Enterprise's ecommerce services business may be substantially impacted by any adverse conditions in the offline businesses of an Enterprise client that negatively impact that client's online businesses. Any impairment of the offline business of Enterprise clients, whether due to financial difficulties, impairment of client brands, reduction in marketing efforts, reduction in the number of client retail stores or otherwise, could negatively affect consumer traffic and sales through Enterprise clients' websites, which would result in lower revenues generated by our Enterprise business. Our Enterprise business also relies on its clients' ability to accurately forecast product demand and select and buy the inventory for their corresponding online businesses. Under such arrangements, the client establishes product prices and pays our Enterprise business service fees based either on a fixed or variable percentage of revenues, or on the activity performed. As a result, if Enterprise clients fail to accurately forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, the client's ecommerce business (and, in turn, our Enterprise's service fees) could be adversely affected. Our Enterprise business holds some inventory on behalf of its ecommerce services clients. If our Enterprise business is unable to effectively manage and handle this inventory, this may result in unexpected costs that could adversely affect our Enterprise business. Any theft of such inventory, or damage or interruption to such inventory, including as a result of earthquakes, hurricanes, floods, fire, power loss, labor disputes, terrorist attacks and similar events and disruptions, could result in losses related to such inventory and disruptions to the businesses of Enterprise clients, which could in turn adversely affect our Enterprise business. Our Enterprise business processes personal information on behalf of its ecommerce services clients. The personal information of customers of certain websites operated by Enterprise clients may be regulated under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, or other privacy laws and regulations. In some cases, Enterprise's use or disclosure of that information may be restricted by contractual terms, laws and regulations, and any misuse or unpermitted disclosure of that information could negatively impact our Enterprise business and its clients. Enterprise's interactive marketing services business relies on email marketing to drive consumer traffic to the websites operated by its clients. Email could become a less effective means of communicating with and marketing to consumers for a variety of reasons, including: problems with technology that make Enterprise's email communications more difficult to deliver and for consumers to read (e.g., the inability of smart phones or similar communication devices to adequately display email); consumers may disregard marketing emails due to the large volume of such emails they receive; the inability of filters to effectively screen for unwanted emails, resulting in increased levels of junk mail, or “SPAM,” which may overwhelm consumer's email accounts; increased use of social networking sites, which may result in decreased use of email as a primary means of communication; continued security concerns regarding Internet usage in general from viruses, worms or similar problems; and increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by Internet service providers that make it more difficult or costly to utilize email for marketing communications. If any of our Enterprise entities were to end up on SPAM lists or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited emails, their ability to contact customers through email could be significantly restricted. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the demand for Enterprise's email marketing solutions could decrease and our Enterprise business could be harmed. Enterprise's interactive marketing services business also utilizes mobile messaging as a means of communicating with consumers, which carries risks similar to those described above for email marketing. Our Enterprise business has relationships with search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers, online advertising networks and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links to its clients' ecommerce businesses, and our Enterprise business relies on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to its clients' ecommerce businesses. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. Immediately following our acquisition of GSI Commerce, we sold 100% of GSI Commerce's sports merchandise business and 70% of its RueLaLa and ShopRunner businesses (which we refer to collectively as the divested entities), to Kynetic LLC, which we refer to as Kynetic. Kynetic is primarily owned by GSI Commerce's former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Michael Rubin. Each of the divested entities was a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of GSI Commerce. In connection with (and as a result of) the divestiture to Kynetic, our Enterprise business maintains certain commercial and financial relationships with the divested entities which expose it to certain risks of the businesses of Kynetic and the divested entities. As part of the Kynetic divestiture, we loaned Kynetic and the divested entities $467 million, which is secured by certain assets of the divested entities. Kynetic and the divested entities' ability to repay this obligation is dependent on the financial performance of Kynetic and the divested entities. If Kynetic is unable to repay this obligation, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Finally, our Enterprise business is also party to certain acquisition agreements relating to entities purchased by GSI Commerce prior to our acquisition of GSI Commerce, and which relate to businesses owned by the divested entities. Kynetic has agreed to indemnify our Enterprise business for certain liabilities incurred by GSI Commerce under these acquisition agreements. If such liabilities were realized and Kynetic was not able or willing to meet its indemnification obligations, our Enterprise business would be liable for them and its business could be harmed. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have anti-scalping laws and regulations covering the resale of event tickets. Some jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices above the face value of the tickets or at all, or highly regulate the resale of tickets, and new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions may be adopted that could limit or inhibit our ability to operate, or our users' ability to continue to use, our tickets business. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions. In October 2007, two plaintiffs filed a purported class action lawsuit in North Carolina Superior Court alleging that StubHub sold (and facilitated and participated in the sale) of concert tickets to plaintiffs with the knowledge that the tickets were resold in violation of North Carolina's maximum ticket resale price law (which has been subsequently amended). In February 2011, the trial court granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment, concluding that immunity under the Communications Decency Act did not apply. The trial court further held that StubHub violated the North Carolina unfair and deceptive trade practices statute as it pertained to the two named plaintiffs, and certified its decision for immediate appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals. In February 2012, the North Carolina Court of Appeals overturned the lower court's decision, and the Court of Appeals' decision is now final. Similar actions are expected in other states. Laws and regulations governing the resale of event tickets outside the U.S. (for example, in Europe) may be more restrictive, and carry harsher penalties and fines, than corresponding U.S. laws and regulations. In 2012, France passed a law prohibiting the habitual resale of event tickets without permission from the event organizer. In addition, the unauthorized resale of football (soccer) tickets is illegal in the U.K., where a StubHub site was launched in 2011. While we have secured a number of commercial partnerships in the UK in order to enable our customers to buy and sell football (soccer) tickets, if we are unable to maintain these partnerships or develop new partnerships on acceptable terms, our tickets business would suffer. Some event organizers and professional sports teams have expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our sites. Lawuits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such lawsuits could result in damage awards, could require us to change our business practices in ways that may be harmful to our business, or could otherwise negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. The economic downturn resulted in a decrease in ticket prices sold on our sites and negatively impacted revenue and profits. In addition, a work stoppage, strike or lockout by a professional sports league (for example, the National Hockey League lockout that ended in January 2013) that results in the cancellation of all or a portion of the games in a league's season would harm our tickets business. In addition, a portion of the tickets inventory sold by sellers on the StubHub website is processed by StubHub in digital form. Systems failures, security breaches, theft or other disruptions that result in the loss of such sellers' tickets inventory could materially harm our tickets business. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies (such as Live Nation Entertainment/Ticketmaster, Comcast-Spectacor and Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports teams and leagues), ticket brokers and online and offline ticket resellers, such as TicketsNow (which is owned by Live Nation Entertainment) and RazorGator. In addition, some ticketing service companies and event organizers have begun to issue event tickets through various forms of electronic ticketing systems that are designed to restrict or prohibit the free transferability (and by extension, the free resale) of such event tickets either to favor their own resale affiliates or to discourage resale. Similarly, some professional sports teams have begun to introduce measures that may have the effect of discouraging season ticket holders from listing their tickets for sale through third party platforms (such as the StubHub website) that compete with the teams' own or preferred secondary ticketing services. Such measures include making PDF versions of tickets available only for a limited period of time, and imposing fees on season ticket holders to obtain PDF versions of their tickets. PDF versions of tickets is one of the most popular formats for ticket listings on the StubHub website. As a result, to the extent that such measures result in our customers' inability or unwillingness to list tickets for sale on the StubHub website, our tickets business would be harmed. Ticketing service companies have also begun to use market-based pricing strategies or dynamic pricing to charge much higher prices than they historically have for premium tickets. Besides charging higher prices, these ticketing service companies have also imposed additional restrictions on transferability for these types of tickets, such as requiring customers to pick up these tickets at will-call with the purchasing credit card. To the extent that event tickets issued in this manner cannot be resold on our websites, or to the extent that we are otherwise unable to effectively compete with these competitors, our tickets business would be harmed. Pursuant to commercial arrangements with certain of its partners, StubHub provides some of its sellers with the ability to conduct integrated resale transactions, which consumers may prefer due to, among other factors, quicker delivery and lower fraud concerns. These integrations are largely deal-dependent, and these arrangements may not be renewed on favorable terms, or at all. Our StubHub business receives funds directly from buyers for tickets purchased from sellers, and subsequently pays the sellers upon shipment of the tickets. Intermediation of transactions between buyers and sellers could potentially subject StubHub to licensure requirements, laws and regulatory oversight in certain jurisdictions, which may harm our ticket business. We depend on key personnel. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel, including key engineering and product development personnel, and our ability to retain and motivate them. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies, and some members of our senior management team have fully vested the vast majority of their in-the-money equity incentives. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our businesses all depend on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, especially in the Silicon Valley where our corporate headquarters are located, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our users could harm our business. A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our users list items, caching services that make our sites load faster and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial interest in their success, while in other cases we have none. PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that link PayPal to the payment card and bank clearing networks to process transactions. As described under the risk factor caption entitled “Changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm PayPal's business,” PayPal is subject to, among other things, increases in interchange fees and assessments that payment card networks such as Visa and MasterCard charge for each transaction using one of their cards (which PayPal's payment card processors have the right to pass on to PayPal), as well as changes in payment card network operating rules, including special operating rules for Internet payment services (with which PayPal is required by its payment card processors to comply). Similarly, Bill Me Later relies on an unaffiliated lender in providing the Bill Me Later service and also relies heavily on third parties to operate its services, including merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. In addition, our Enterprise business utilizes unaffiliated payment processing companies to process transactions on the websites operated by Enterprise clients, third parties to provide underlying components of its ecommerce platform, and third parties in its operations business to perform services during peak order volume periods. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes, lockouts or work stoppages) or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our users could reduce the number of listings on our sites, make it more difficult for users to complete transactions on our websites and mobile platforms, or adversely affect Enterprise's ability to timely fulfill and ship products sold on the websites operated by its clients, which would harm our business. Price increases by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that provide services to our users and clients (such as postal and delivery services, as well as our recently launched global shipping platform intended to facilitate cross-border transactions between buyers and sellers) could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our sellers to complete transactions or for us to timely fulfill and ship products sold on the websites operated by Enterprise clients, thereby harming our business. Some third parties who provide services to us may have or gain market power and be able to increase their prices to us without competitive constraint. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service, which is facing ongoing fiscal challenges, has instituted postal rate increases and announced that it is considering closing thousands of local post offices and ending Saturday mail delivery. While we continue to work with global carriers to offer our sellers a variety of shipping options and to enhance our shipping experience, postal rate increases may reduce the competitiveness of certain sellers' offerings, and postal service changes could require certain sellers to utilize alternatives which could be more expensive or inconvenient, which could in turn decrease the velocity of trade on our site, thereby harming our business. For example, we believe that recent increases in international postal rates by the U.S. Postal Service may have reduced cross-border trade by U.S. sellers. Any security breach at a company providing services to our users could also adversely affect our customers and harm our business. We have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including some customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our velocity of trade, business, reputation and operating results. Although we generally have been able to renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with, or if necessary replace, third parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy due to poor economic conditions, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to our users will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Measures that we sometimes take to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our sites by making our sites more difficult to use or restricting the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant personnel expense, and if not managed properly, this expense could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage or train our own or outsourced customer support representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. Negative publicity about, or negative experiences with, customer support for any of our businesses could cause our reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in our brands individually or as a whole. Because PayPal is providing a financial service and operating in a more regulated environment, PayPal must provide both telephone and email customer support and resolve certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of PayPal's program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering and terrorist financing, PayPal may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer's account activity are identified by PayPal's risk models as suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity with respect to its customer support and account restrictions, and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things, failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. PayPal, Inc.; and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) were filed in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations that PayPal improperly held users' funds or otherwise improperly limited users' accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal's practices among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to PayPal's practices could expose PayPal to significant liability. Any changes to PayPal's practices resulting from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend product resources, which could delay other planned product launches or improvements and further harm our business. Also, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau has launched a complaints portal on its website that allows customers to file complaints against PayPal and other money transfer service providers, and publishes information on such complaints. If PayPal is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, PayPal's users may have negative experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged and it could become subject to additional litigation. As a result, current and future revenues could suffer, losses could be incurred and its operating margins may decrease. Our industries are intensely competitive. Across our businesses, the industries in which we compete are characterized by dynamic and rapid technological change, many and different business models, and frequent disruption of incumbents by innovative entrants. We often compete across a range of industries with platform businesses such as Apple, Google, and Facebook, many of whom are larger than we are, have a dominant and secure position in other industries, and offer other goods and services to consumers and merchants which we do not offer. As online and offline commerce increasingly converge, the pace of change, innovation and disruption is increasing. Marketplaces Our Marketplaces businesses currently and potentially compete with a wide variety of online and offline companies providing goods and services to consumers and merchants. The Internet and mobile networks provide new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods and services. Our Marketplaces businesses compete in two-sided markets, and must attract both buyers and sellers to use our platforms. Consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through our Marketplaces businesses have more and more alternatives, and merchants have more channels to reach consumers. We expect competition to continue to intensify. Online and offline businesses increasingly are competing with each other. The barriers to entry into these channels can be low, and businesses easily can launch online sites or mobile platforms and applications at nominal cost by using commercially available software or partnering with any of a number of successful ecommerce companies. In addition, our Marketplaces businesses face increased competitive pressure online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, Internet ecommerce and mobile commerce has significantly increased, due to, among other factors, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. If we are unable to change our products, offerings and services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the Internet ecommerce and mobile commerce marketplaces, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher expected service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), our business will suffer. Consumers who might use our site to buy goods have a wide variety of alternatives, including the vast majority of traditional department, warehouse, boutique, discount and general merchandise stores (as well as the online and mobile operations of these traditional retailers), online retailers and their related mobile offerings, online and offline classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the U.S., these include Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy's, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam's Club, Amazon.com (which continues to expand into new geographies and lines of business), Buy.com (owned by Rakuten), Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC and Home Shopping Network, among others. In addition, consumers have a large number of online and offline channels focused on one or more of the categories of products offered on our site. Consumers also can turn to many companies that offer a variety of services that provide other channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites such as craigslist (in which we own a minority equity stake), Oodle.com and a number of international websites operated by Schibsted ASA. Consumers also can turn to shopping-comparison sites, such as Google Shopping and Bing Shopping. In certain markets, our fixed-price listing and traditional auction-style listing formats increasingly are being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. Our classifieds websites, including Den Blå Avis, BilBasen, eBay Classifieds (including eBay Anuncios, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), Gumtree, Kijiji, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl, mobile.de and alaMaula, offer classifieds listings in the U.S. and a variety of local international markets. In many markets in which they operate, including in the U.S., our classified platforms compete against more established online and offline classifieds platforms. Our online shopping comparison (Shopping.com) websites compete with sites such as Google Shopping, Bing Shopping, Buy.com, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, Buscapé in Latin America (owned by Naspers) and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on horizontal search engine sites such as Bing, Google, Yahoo!, Naver and Baidu. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to help users find our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. Consumers may choose to search for products and services with a horizontal search engine instead of our sites, and horizontal search engines may send users to other shopping destinations instead of our sites. Consumers and merchants who might use our sites to sell goods also have many alternatives, including general online ecommerce sites such as Amazon, and more specialized sites, such as Etsy. Our international sites also compete for sellers with general online ecommerce sites such as: Amazon, Rakuten.de, Quelle and Otto in Germany; Leboncoin.fr and PriceMinister (owned by Rakuten) in France; Taobao Marketplace and Taobao Mall in China; Tradus (owned by Naspers) in Poland; Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan; Lotte, Naver and 11th Street in South Korea; Trading Post, OZtion and Aussie Bidder in Australia; and Amazon and Play.com (owned by Rakuten) in the United Kingdom and other countries; and Alibaba in certain less developed markets. Our sellers may choose to sell their goods through other channels, such as classifieds sites. Consumers and merchants also can create and sell through their own sites, and may choose to purchase online advertising instead of using our services. In some countries, there are online sites that have larger customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do, as well as competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce than we do. As our businesses in developing countries grow, we increasingly may compete with domestic competitors that have advantages we do not possess, such as a greater ability to operate under local regulatory authorities. The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online and mobile competition, additional competitive factors include: community cohesion, interaction and size; website or mobile platform and application ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment; level of service fees; and quality of search tools We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online ecommerce sites may be acquired by, receive investments from, or enter into other commercial relationships with well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote more resources to website, mobile platforms and applications and systems development than we can. Some of our competitors may offer or continue to offer free shipping, favorable return policies or other transaction-related services which improve the user experience on their sites and which could be impractical or inefficient for our sellers to match. Our competitors may be able to innovate faster than we can, and new technologies may further increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Our competitors may be able to use the advantages of brick-and-mortar stores or other sorts of physical presence. In addition, certain manufacturers may limit or cease distribution of their products through online channels such as eBay. Manufacturers may attempt to use existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods or services. Manufacturers may also attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance or minimum advertised price arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our websites or on the Internet generally, or at prices that would make our site attractive relative to other alternatives. For example, in June 2012, Adidas Group announced that it intends to restrict its dealers, on a global basis, from listing and selling Adidas and Reebok products on sites including eBay.com, and Nike Inc. and ASICS Corp. have taken steps to similarly restrict Internet sales of their products on platform sites such as eBay.com. The adoption by manufacturers of policies, or the adoption of new laws or regulations or interpretations of existing laws or regulations by government authorities, in each case discouraging or restricting the sales of goods or services over the Internet, could force our users to stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased competition or anti-Internet distribution policies or regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brands. As we respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among some of our sellers, which could reduce activity on our websites and harm our profitability. Although we receive Internet traffic from several large online services and search engine providers, these arrangements may not continue on favorable terms or these companies may decide to promote competitive services. In any event, such arrangements may not result in increased usage of our sites. In addition, companies that control user access to transactions through network access, Internet browsers, mobile networks, mobile operating systems or search engines could promote our competitors, channel current or potential users to their vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their advertisers' sites, attempt to restrict access to our sites, or charge us substantial fees for inclusion. For example, Google increasingly may steer its users to its own sites, adversely affecting traffic to our sites. Search engines increasingly are becoming a starting point for online shopping, and as the costs of operating an online store continue to decline, online sellers may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers conduct through our sites. PayPal The markets for PayPal's products and services are intensely competitive and are subject to rapid technological change, including but not limited to: mobile payments, electronic funds transfer networks allowing Internet access, cross-border access to payment networks, creation of new payment networks, and new technologies for enabling merchants, both online and offline, to process payments more simply. PayPal faces competition and potential competition from existing online, mobile and offline payment methods, including, among others: providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit and debit cards, checks, money orders and Automated Clearing House transactions (these providers are primarily well-established banks); providers of “digital wallets” which offer customers the ability to pay online or on mobile devices through a variety of payment methods, including Visa's V.me, MasterCard's MasterPass, American Express's Serve, Google Wallet and the Merchant Customer Exchange (MCX) initiative supported by Walmart, Target and other major U.S. retailers; payment-card processors that offer their services to merchants, including Chase Paymentech, First Data, Bank of America Merchant Services, WorldPay, Barclays Merchant Services, Global Payments, Inc., and Stripe, and payment gateways, including CyberSource and Authorize.net (both owned by Visa), Braintree and First Data; Amazon Payments, which offers merchants the ability to accept credit card- and bank-funded payments from Amazon's base of online and mobile customers on the merchant's own website; providers of mobile payments, including ISIS in the U.S., Buyster in France, Mpass in Germany, Weve in the U.K., Boku, Venmo (acquired by Braintree) and Crandy, many of which are owned by or supported by major mobile carriers; and providers of card readers for mobile devices and of other new Point of Sale technologies, including Square (which has also begun to offer a marketplace service to sellers), Bank of America, Capital One, iZettle, WorldPay, Payleven, Groupon and others. PayPal also faces competition and potential competition from: money remitters such as MoneyGram, Western Union, Global Payments, Inc. and Euronet; bill payment services, including CheckFree, a subsidiary of Fiserv; services that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit, including ClearXchange (a joint venture among Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JP Morgan Chase), Western Union's WU Pay, Dwolla, Acculynk, TeleCheck (a subsidiary of First Data), iDEAL in the Netherlands, Sofortuberweisung in Germany and the MyBank pan-European initiative; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including NetSpend, Green Dot, PayNearMe and UKash; international online payment-services providers such as AliPay, the PayU group of companies (owned by Naspers), PagSeguro, Bcash (owned by Naspers) and Klarna; other providers of online account-based payments, such as Skrill, ClickandBuy (owned by Deutsche Telekom), Barclays Pingit in the U.K., Kwixo in France, and Paymate and Visa PayClick in Australia; payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, often through billing to the consumer's mobile phone account, including PlaySpan (owned by Visa), Boku, Bango and Payfone; payment services enabling banks to offer their online banking customers the ability to send and receive payments through their bank account, including ZashPay from Fiserv and Popmoney from CashEdge (acquired by Fiserv), both of which have announced collaboration agreements with Visa; online shopping services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider, such as Visa's RightCliq, MasterCard MarketPlace, TrialPay and Tapjoy; and cash. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater brand recognition, or a larger base of customers than PayPal, and may be also be able to leverage other affiliated businesses for competitive advantage. PayPal's competitors may be able to innovate and respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and other regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to additional regulations based on, among other factors, its licensure as a bank in Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google previously has offered free payments processing on transactions in amounts proportionate to certain advertising spending with Google. We also expect new entrants, such as MCX, to offer competitive products and services. In addition, some merchants provide such services to themselves. Competing services tied to established banks and other financial institutions may offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal. In addition, in certain countries, such as Germany, Netherlands and Australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online and offline transactions. In the U.K., the Payments Council has announced that mobile payments between bank accounts will be broadly available beginning in 2014. As in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and easily develop such a service. The principal competitive factors for PayPal include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage both buyers and sellers with relatively low marketing expense; ability to show that sellers will achieve incremental sales by offering PayPal; security of transactions and the ability for buyers to use PayPal without sharing their financial information with the seller; low fees and simplicity of fee structure; ability to develop services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the physical point of sale; trust in PayPal's dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online and mobile competition, additional competitive factors include: website and mobile platform and application onboarding, ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; data security; and quality of developer tools such as our Application Programming Interfaces and Software Development Kits. Some of PayPal's competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First Data and American Express, also provide processing services to PayPal. If PayPal were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers, either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition, these processing relationships could be negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services. Enterprise Our Enterprise business segment has two main businesses: ecommerce services and interactive marketing services. Ecommerce Services The market for the development and operation of ecommerce services that enable companies to operate ecommerce businesses and integrate their ecommerce businesses into their multichannel retail offerings is continuously evolving and intensely competitive. In our ecommerce services business, we face competition from in-house ecommerce solutions, technology and service providers which supply one or more components of an ecommerce solution, and other providers of integrated ecommerce solutions. Many of our prospective ecommerce services clients evaluate managing all or some aspects of an ecommerce operation with internal resources. As a result, we often compete with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal information technology staffs, merchandising groups, and other internal corporate constituencies as well as with technology and service providers that supply one or more components of an ecommerce solution that allow prospective clients to develop and operate their ecommerce business in-house. This group of providers may include the prospective client itself and companies that offer: Web platforms (e.g., Art Technology Group (owned by Oracle), IBM, Amazon, Demandware, MarketLive and Microsoft); customer care/call center services (e.g., West Communications, Amazon, Sykes Enterprises, and Convergys); fulfillment and logistics (e.g., PFS Web, Amazon, Innotrac, DHL, and UPS); and systems integrators and technology providers (e.g., Accenture, EDS, Sapient, Infosys, Oracle and IBM). We believe that we compete with ecommerce services competitors primarily on the basis of the following: offering the choice of a complete integrated solution or a component-based solution; promoting the client's brand and business, rather than our own; providing scale and operating leverage with an enterprise focus; establishing a commitment to invest in and enhance our platform; and aligning our financial interests with those of our clients. Interactive Marketing Services The market for interactive marketing services is continuously evolving and intensely competitive. In our interactive marketing services business, we face competition from other providers of interactive marketing services, other providers of traditional marketing services and in-house marketing departments, as our prospective interactive marketing services clients evaluate managing their marketing services with internal resources as well as through interactive marketing agencies. As a result, we often compete with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal marketing departments as well as with service providers that supply one or more interactive marketing services. This group of providers may include the prospective client itself and companies that offer: email management and data aggregation (e.g., Experian, Harte-Hanks and Epsilon); online marketing and design services (digital marketing services agencies such as Omnicom Group, WPP Group, Publicis and the Interpublic Group of Companies); and other interactive marketing services (e.g., Google, LinkShare (owned by Rakuten), TradeDoubler, and ValueClick). Low barriers to entry in the interactive marketing industry could also increase the number of competitors our interactive marketing services business may face. We believe that we compete with interactive marketing services competitors primarily on the basis of the following: offering digital marketing solutions that are integrated with our ecommerce services platform, which we believe provides a more strategic, cohesive and optimized approach to growing ecommerce businesses; and providing services that utilize proprietary technology to promote stronger customer engagement designed to increase clients' return on investment. Our ecommerce services and interactive marketing services businesses have competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources. Those competitors may be able to secure components of their technology and services on more favorable terms and devote more resources to technology development and marketing than our ecommerce services and interactive marketing services business. In addition, as we expand our ecommerce services and interactive marketing services businesses internationally, we will face increased competition from global and local companies which may have a greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. Lastly, as our current and prospective clients seek a larger global presence and target new markets abroad, we increasingly will compete with ecommerce services competitors on the basis of our international ecommerce solutions. We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. We receive scrutiny from various government agencies under U.S. and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S., individual states, the European Commission, or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Contractual agreements with buyers, sellers, or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Also, our unilateral business practices could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Some regulators, particularly those outside of the U.S., may perceive our business to have so much market power that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. For example, in the U.S., we have been sued by a plaintiff representing a putative class of sellers who alleges that we have illegally monopolized a market for online auctions. In Korea, the national competition authority has investigated allegations that we have engaged in illegal exclusive conduct and rendered a decision against us in October 2010. Both the main case and a related administrative action were resolved in our favor. The competition authorities in Germany and Australia have conducted investigations (now completed) of various actions taken by our businesses. Such claims and investigations, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in significant judgments against us or require us to change our business practices. In several jurisdictions, we have taken actions designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites and mobile platforms. Beginning in June 2008, we have required users in the U.K. to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized U.K. site, and since October 2008, we have required sellers on eBay.com to accept one or more accepted payment methods (currently PayPal, credit or debit cards processed through Internet merchant accounts, ProPay and Skrill (formerly known as Moneybookers)) and no longer allow any forms of paper payment, including checks and money orders, to be listed by sellers in the U.S. for most categories of items. While these initiatives are intended to improve and make safer our users' buying experience and/or increase activity on our sites, certain users may be negatively affected by or react negatively to these changes, and may allege that we have (and are abusing) market power. We have faced inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to such actions. For example, in 2008, both the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. We may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. Negative reactions to these changes by our users or government authorities could, among other things, force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business, operating results and profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites or mobile platforms and applications, including seasonal factors, national events and increased usage of other websites. Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites or mobile platforms and applications could adversely affect our business. We would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly, our results of operations historically have experienced seasonal fluctuations because many of our users reduce their activities on our websites with the onset of good weather during the summer months, and on and around national holidays. In addition, our Enterprise business is highly seasonal, with the fourth quarter holiday season accounting for a disproportionate amount of Enterprise's net revenues due to consumers increasing their purchases and businesses increasing their advertising to consumers during that period, and any factors that limit or dampen consumer spending during the fourth quarter holiday season could harm our Enterprise business. In addition, increased usage of social networking or other entertainment websites or mobile platforms and applications may decrease the amount of time users spend on our websites or mobile platforms and applications, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of our business could harm us. We have expanded significantly our headcount, facilities and infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that further expansion in certain areas and geographies will be required for some of our businesses. We are also increasing our product and service offerings across our businesses. This expansion increases the complexity of our businesses and places a significant strain on our management, operational and financial resources. The areas of our business that are put under strain by our growth include the following: Technology Platforms. We continue to focus on upgrading and developing our systems and infrastructure to accommodate the growth of our businesses and to improve the functionality and reliability of our websites and services at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7 operations. Risks associated with our failure to do so are described under the captions “If we are unable to cost-effectively upgrade and expand our websites, services and platforms, our business would suffer” and “Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business.” Customer Account Billing. Our revenues depend on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed on our and our subsidiaries' websites would harm our business and our ability to collect revenue. Customer Service. We continue to focus on providing better and more efficient customer support to our users. We intend to provide an increased level of support (including an increasing amount of telephone support and supporting an increasing number of languages) in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to provide customer support in a cost-effective manner, users of our products and services may have negative experiences, current and future revenues could suffer, our costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We must continue to effectively hire, train and manage new employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating new employees, or if we are unsuccessful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. To effectively manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. This is a special challenge as we acquire new operations with different and incompatible systems. Any capital investments that we may make will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in the short term. Failure to implement these improvements could limit our ability to manage our growth and adversely affect our operating results. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our tax structure. Governments are increasingly focused on ways to increase revenues, which has contributed to an increase in audit activity and harsher stances taken by tax authorities. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient in the event that any taxing authority is successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our positions. In light of serious ongoing fiscal challenges in the U.S. and many countries in Europe, various levels of government are also increasingly focused on tax reform and other legislative action to increase tax revenue, including corporate income taxes.  For example, the economic downturn reduced tax revenues for U.S. federal and state governments, and a number of proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities have been implemented or are being considered at various levels of government. Among the options have been a range of proposals included in the tax and budget policies recommended to the U.S. Congress by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to modify the federal tax rules related to the imposition of U.S. federal corporate income taxes for companies operating in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. If such proposals are enacted into law, this could increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S. states have likewise attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state, and taxing authorities in foreign jurisdictions may take similar actions. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas to increase the amount of taxable income/loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of these efforts. If more taxing authorities are successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that do not have a physical presence in the jurisdiction, this could increase our effective tax rate. Our developer platforms, which are open to merchants and third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. In 2009, we launched the PayPal Developer Platform to enable third-party developers to access a wide variety of PayPal product and programming code specifications and to connect to select PayPal payment application programming interfaces (APIs). We also began providing a software tool kit for building mobile payments applications, and enabling third-party developers to access certain APIs with respect to our Marketplaces platforms. In March 2013, we announced enhanced software development kits and API tools for the PayPal platform, with a particular focus on developers of mobile applications. In August 2011, we acquired Magento, Inc. (now X.commerce, Inc.) which includes an open platform for merchants and developers. There can be no assurance that merchants or third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. In addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions, which may be contravened by such third party applications. If this were to occur, we could be liable for the regulatory failure and our business could be adversely affected. There are risks associated with our indebtedness. As of June 30, 2013, we had approximately $4.5 billion of senior unsecured indebtedness and no indebtedness outstanding under our $2.0 billion commercial paper program, although from time to time we have made substantial borrowings under our commercial paper program. We also have a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility, under which we maintain $2.0 billion of available borrowing capacity in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they come due. As of June 30, 2013, no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under this revolving credit facility and, accordingly, $1.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by this credit facility. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility or through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have important consequences, including, without limitation, the following: we will be required to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; adverse changes in the ratings assigned to our debt securities by credit rating agencies will likely increase our borrowing costs; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and other general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds to the U.S. at substantial tax cost; seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or reduce or delay planned operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. We depend on the continued growth of online and mobile commerce. The business of selling goods over the Internet and mobile networks, particularly through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns about fraud, privacy and other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting the Internet or mobile devices as modes of commerce, or may prompt consumers to offline channels. In countries such as the U.S., Germany, Australia, Korea and the U.K., where our services and online commerce generally have been available for some time and the level of market penetration of our services is high, acquiring new users for our services may be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. Moreover, the growth rates of Internet users are slowing in many countries where we have a significant presence. In order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods and may prefer Internet analogues to such traditional retail means, such as the retailer's own website, to our offerings. If these consumers prove to be less active than our earlier users due to lower levels of willingness to use the Internet or mobile devices for commerce for any reason, including lack of access to high-speed communications equipment, congestion of traffic on the Internet, Internet or mobile network outages or delays, disruptions or other damage to users' computers or mobile devices, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new users, our business could be adversely impacted. Our businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet, as well as access to mobile networks. Internet service providers and mobile network operators may be able to block, degrade, or charge us or our users additional fees for our offerings, which could harm our business. Our customers rely on access to the Internet or mobile networks to use our products and services. In many cases, that access is provided by companies that compete with at least some of our offerings, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and large Internet service providers. Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of customers' use of our offerings by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Mobile network operators or operating system providers could block or place onerous restrictions on our ability to offer our mobile applications in their mobile application stores. Internet service providers or mobile network operators could attempt to charge us each time our customers use our offerings. Worldwide, a number of companies have announced plans to take such actions or are selling products designed to facilitate such actions. The United States Federal Communications Commission enacted rules in December 2010 (Preserving the Open Internet Broadband Industry Practices (FCC-10-201)) establishing baseline restrictions that would regulate the ability of Internet access companies to interfere with Internet traffic transported over wired and wireless networks. The new rules have been challenged in the D.C. Circuit Court of Appeals. The case has been scheduled for September 2013, and a decision is expected in late 2013. Pending greater regulatory and judicial clarity, any interference with our offerings or higher charges for access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers, could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers and harm our revenue and growth. Our business depends on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our services will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” malware and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have been the targets of such programs. From time to time, the Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. Any such outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services, which could adversely impact our business. We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay and PayPal names), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our technology or deter independent development of equivalent or superior technologies or other intellectual property rights by others. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including land and buildings related to our operations. We have little experience in managing real property. Ownership of this property subjects us to a number of additional risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; disruptions to our operations resulting from possible natural disasters, interruptions in utilities and similar events; adverse changes in the value of these properties due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; and possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or take control of our board of directors. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors through our annual meeting of stockholders in 2015, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined by Delaware law) for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control",0.998300716478,0.891482811698
25,1065088, EBAY , 2012-07-19 ,2012,2," Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations and cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include risks described elsewhere in this section and the following: general economic conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged period of limited economic growth or possible economic decline in the U.S. and Europe; adverse effects of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe, including increased Euro currency exchange rate volatility, the negative impact of the crisis and related austerity measures on European economic growth, potential negative spillover effects to the rest of the world, the “contagion” risk of the crisis spreading to additional countries in Europe, the possibility that one or more countries leaves the Euro zone and re-introduces its individual currency, and, in more extreme circumstances, the possible dissolution of the Euro currency; disruptions to the credit and financial markets in Europe, the U.S., and elsewhere; contractions or limited growth in consumer spending or consumer credit; and adverse economic conditions that may be specific to the Internet, ecommerce and payments industries; the primary and secondary effects of previously announced and possible future changes to our pricing, products and policies, including, among other changes, restrictions or holds on payments made to certain sellers or in connection with certain transactions; changes to our dispute resolution process; upgrades to eBay checkout services, including the introduction of a new eBay shopping cart/basket that enables buyers to add items from multiple sellers and pay in a single checkout; and changes to our fee structure, including new requirements to qualify for ""eBay Trusted Seller"" discounts; our ability to manage the rapid shift from online commerce and payments to mobile commerce and payments; our ability to improve the quality of the user experience on our websites and through mobile devices (including our customer support in the event of a problem) in light of the improved quality generally of the user experience offered by competitive merchants; our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users, and encourage existing users to list items for sale, purchase items through our websites and mobile platforms, or use our payment services, especially when consumer spending is weak; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions using our websites or technology and the effect of any changes in our practices and policies on such confidence; our ability to manage the costs of and effectively implement our user protection programs; our ability to comply with existing and new laws and regulations, especially those affecting our Payments business, as we expand the range and geographical scope of our products and services and as we grow larger, including those laws and regulations discussed below under the caption ""If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions, consumer protection, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices;"" new laws or regulations (such as those that may stem from the proposed Anti-Counterfeiting Trade Agreement (ACTA) and Trans-Pacific Partnership Agreement (TPP) and the proposed revisions to the European Data Directive) and interpretations of existing laws or regulations, including national court interpretations of the European Court of Justice's decision in the L'Oréal case (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above), that impose liability on us for the actions of our users or otherwise harm our business models, especially as we become more actively involved in various aspects of transactions on our platforms; regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our businesses or our users, including the injunction related to certain cosmetic and perfume brands (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above); the impact on PayPal or Bill Me Later of regulations enacted pursuant to new laws regulating financial institutions, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the U.S.;our ability to manage the costs of compliance with existing and new laws and regulations that affect our businesses; the volume, velocity, size, timing, monetization, and completion rates of transactions using our websites or technology; our ability to reduce the loss of active buyers and sellers and increase activity of the users of our Marketplaces business, especially with respect to our top buyers and sellers, and increase activity of PayPal account holders, particularly in merchant services business; our ability to develop product enhancements, programs, and features on different platforms and mobile devices at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner, including our initiatives to make PayPal solutions available at the retail point of sale; changes to our use of advertising on our sites; our ability to upgrade and develop our systems (including the migration to GSI's new technology platform), infrastructure and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to improve the functionality and reliability of our websites and services at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7 operations; the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of new stores, channels, sites, applications, services, products and functionality; the costs and results of litigation or regulatory actions that involve us; technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our websites or services provided to us or our users by third parties; our ability to manage the transaction loss rate in our Marketplaces, Payments and GSI ecommerce services businesses; our ability to manage funding costs, credit risk and interest-rate risk associated with our Bill Me Later business; our ability to successfully and cost-effectively integrate and manage businesses that we acquire, including GSI; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations and infrastructure; our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose services are required for our operations, such as payment card networks and banks; the cost and availability of traditional and online advertising, and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective manner and to retain key employees; the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and other parties with which we have commercial relations; continued consumer acceptance of the Internet and emerging consumer acceptance of mobile devices as a medium for ecommerce and payments in the face of increasing publicity about fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, malware and other dangers; and macroeconomic and geopolitical events affecting commerce generally. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. We invest heavily in technology, marketing and promotion, customer support, protection programs and further development of the operating infrastructure for our core and non-core operations. Some of this investment entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. Growth rates of our Marketplaces businesses in some of our most established markets have been slower than that for ecommerce generally and have declined in certain periods. The growth of Internet users is slowing in many countries where we have a significant presence. Despite our efforts to stem our loss of share in these and other markets, we may not be successful. As our growth rates in established markets slow, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing Marketplaces users (especially our top buyers and sellers) and PayPal account holders (especially in our merchant services business) active and increasing their activity level on our websites and mobile platforms and their use of our payment services, respectively, in order to continue to grow those respective businesses. The growth of Internet users is accelerating in some countries and regions where we do not have a significant presence (e.g., Brazil/Latin America, Russia, China and certain developing countries in which we do not have a meaningful (or, in some cases, any) domestic business). If we are unable to establish our businesses and drive adoption of our services in such markets, our future growth would be negatively impacted. Our Marketplaces business continues to face increased competitive pressure both online and offline. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, Internet ecommerce websites has significantly increased, due to, for example, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. If we are unable to change our services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce marketplace, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), our business will suffer. We have announced changes to our Marketplaces business that are intended to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency and buyer experiences. For example, in the U.S., the U.K. and Canada, we may request that PayPal place temporary holds on seller funds in certain instances (e.g., for sellers with a limited selling history or below-standard performance ratings), which is intended to help improve seller performance and increase buyer satisfaction. We may expand the scope of such programs in the future and introduce and implement additional programs with similar aims in different businesses and geographies. Some of the changes that we have announced to date have been controversial with, and led to dissatisfaction among, our sellers, and additional changes that we announce in the future may also be negatively received by some of our sellers. This may not only impact the supply of items listed on our websites, but because many sellers also buy from our sites, it may adversely impact demand as well. Given the number of recent changes that we have made to our policies and pricing, it may take our sellers some time to fully assess and adjust to these changes, and sellers may elect to reduce volume on our sites while making such assessments and adjustments or in response to these changes. If any of these changes cause sellers to move their business (in whole or in part) away from our websites or otherwise fail to improve gross merchandise volume or the number of successful listings, our operating results and profitability will be harmed. We believe that the mix of sales under our traditional auction-style listing format and fixed-price listing format will continue to shift towards our fixed-price format. Accordingly, we have eliminated some of the features related to our traditional auction-style format and expect others will continue to become less meaningful to, and used less frequently by, our sellers, resulting in a corresponding decrease in revenues from those features. We also expect that the costs associated with our seller discount programs will increase as more sellers become eligible for such discounts. In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions originate on the eBay platform, declines in growth rates in major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal's growth. The expected future growth of our PayPal, GSI, StubHub and our other lower margin businesses may also cause downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms. The sluggish economy and the sovereign debt crisis could harm our business. Our Marketplaces, Payments and GSI ecommerce services businesses are dependent on consumer purchases, and our GSI business is also impacted by the offline businesses of our GSI clients. The economic downturn resulted in reduced buyer demand and reduced selling prices and the slow recovery in the U.S. and the impact of the sovereign debt crisis in Europe may reduce the volume and prices of purchases on our Marketplaces platforms and the volume and prices of transactions paid for using our Payment services and the online and offline businesses of our GSI clients, any of which would adversely affect our business. The sovereign debt crisis could also have a negative and adverse impact on companies with which we do business, which in turn could have an adverse effect on our business. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Because we generate substantial revenues outside the U.S. but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or if exposure reports are delayed. Given that PayPal also holds some corporate and customer funds in non-U.S. currencies, its financial results are affected by the translation of these non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased revenues, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, our translation of foreign currency denominated transactions will result in lower net revenues, operating expenses and net income. If the U.S. dollar continues to strengthen against major European currencies (e.g., the Euro and British pound) whether because of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe or worsening economic conditions, our revenues and operating results would be adversely impacted. For the six months ended June 30, 2012, foreign currency movements relative to the U.S. dollar negatively impacted net revenues of $6.7 billion by approximately $122 million (net of a $26 million positive impact from hedging activities included in PayPal's net revenue) compared to the prior year. As exchange rates vary, net revenues and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, British pound, Korean won, Australian dollar or Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced as a result of these translation adjustments. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to predict or completely eliminate the effects of this exposure. In addition, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar or other currencies, cross-border trade related to purchases of dollar-denominated goods (or goods from Asia-Pacific countries whose currencies tend to follow the dollar) by non-U.S. purchasers will likely decrease, and that decrease will likely not be offset by a corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies, which would adversely affect our business. In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. Relatively low interest rates have continued to limit our investment income, including income we earn on PayPal customer balances. Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender. In November 2008, we acquired Bill Me Later, a company that facilitates credit services offered by an unaffiliated bank. Bill Me Later is neither a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state. Accordingly, Bill Me Later must rely on a bank or licensed lender to issue the Bill Me Later credit products and extend credit to customers to offer the Bill Me Later service. Currently, when a consumer makes a purchase using a Bill Me Later credit product, the chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase the receivables related to the extensions of credit made by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of the purchase, bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each customer account, we own the related receivable and Bill Me Later is responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. In September 2010, WebBank became the issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products. WebBank is an industrial bank chartered by the State of Utah. Any termination or interruption of WebBank's ability to lend could result in our being unable to originate any new transactions for the Bill Me Later service, which would require us to either reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or to obtain our own bank charter, which would be a time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to a number of additional laws and regulations, compliance with which would likely be burdensome. A lawsuit was filed against Bill Me Later, PayPal and eBay in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that in its relationship with the chartered financial institution, Bill Me Later is acting as the true lender to customers in violation of various California laws, including the state's usury law. The court dismissed the usury claims in December 2010, but breach of contract and other claims remain. WebBank requested to intervene in the action and has been added as a party to the action, and in October 2011, the court transferred the case to the U.S. District Court for the District of Utah. The Utah Court allowed plaintiffs the opportunity to amend the complaint, the complaint was amended and plaintiffs re-alleged the usury claims previously dismissed. We and WebBank have filed a motion to dismiss the lawsuit. We believe that plaintiffs' allegations are without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. However, this area of law is uncertain and if the lawsuit is successful, Bill Me Later may be required to change its methods of operations, pay very substantial damages and reduce some of its charges and fees, which would adversely affect our business. If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions, consumer protection, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices. Our Payments business is subject to various laws and regulations in the U.S. and other countries where it operates, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions, consumer protection, banking and lending. The legal and regulatory requirements that apply to our Payments business vary in the markets where we operate. While PayPal has a compliance program focused on compliance with applicable laws and regulations and has significantly increased the resources of that program in the last several years, there can be no assurance that we will not be subject to fines or other enforcement actions in one or more jurisdictions or be required to make changes to our business practices or compliance programs to comply in the future. While PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send payments from 190 markets, PayPal only allows customers in 110 of those markets (including the U.S.) to receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. These limitations may affect PayPal's ability to grow in these markets. Of the 190 markets whose residents can use the PayPal service, 31 (27 countries plus four French overseas departments) are members of the European Union, or EU. Since 2007, PayPal has provided localized versions of its service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l. et Cie, SCA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg by the Commission de Surveillance du Secteur Financier (CSSF). Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance, information security, sanctions or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks. Any fines or other enforcement actions imposed by the Luxembourg regulator could adversely affect PayPal's business. PayPal (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries through a “passport” notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the “passport” notification process in all EU member countries. The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that will apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. These or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, PayPal's plans for expanding its business in EU countries. In addition, national interpretations of regulations implementing the EU Payments Service Directive, which established a new regulatory regime for payment services providers, may be inconsistent, which could make compliance more costly and operationally difficult to manage. In 2011, we began implementing a new payment process in Germany and Austria in which eBay intermediated payments, receiving funds directly from buyers for items purchased from newly registered sellers on the localized eBay websites in those countries and subsequently paying the sellers upon shipment of the items. The German Bundesanstalt für Finanzdienstleistungsaufsicht (BaFin) and the Austrian Finanzmarktaufsicht (FMA) subsequently determined that eBay was required to obtain a license in order to introduce the new payment method. eBay's payment processing unit is based in Luxembourg and is governed by the CSSF, which had advised that there was no need for such a license. In accordance with the BaFin and FMA positions, eBay has agreed to stop intermediating payments and is working with the CSSF with respect to obtaining an appropriate license. In Australia, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Australia Pty. Ltd., which is licensed by the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. Accordingly, PayPal Australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Australian depository institutions. In China, PayPal is affiliated with Shanghai Wangfuyi Information Technology Ltd., which is licensed as an Internet Content Provider and operates a payments service only for Chinese customers and only for transactions denominated in Chinese currency. The People's Bank of China (PBOC) has enacted regulations to establish a new type of license, called a Payment Clearing Organization (PCO) license, which will be required for non-bank payment services. The PBOC regulations leave unclear whether a foreign-owned company such as PayPal can control or invest in a Payment Clearing Organization, and whether Wangfuyi or PayPal's wholly-owned subsidiary in China would be eligible to obtain a PCO license. To date, PayPal has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter in 42 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico. PayPal is also licensed as an escrow agent in one U.S. state. PayPal is applying for money transmitter licenses in five additional states to facilitate its planned offering of payment services at the retail point of sale. The two remaining U.S. states do not currently regulate money transmitters. As a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to restrictions on its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. If PayPal were found to be in violation of money services laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to liability and/or additional restrictions, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change its business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on PayPal. Any change to PayPal's business practices that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could also decrease the velocity of trade on eBay and websites operated by GSI's clients that accept PayPal as a form of payment, which would further harm our business. PayPal's California regulator, the California Department of Financial Institutions (DFI), recently notified PayPal that PayPal's current practice of holding the funds underlying U.S. customer balances as an agent on behalf of its customers, rather than as owner of those funds, causes PayPal to be in violation of the liquidity rules applicable to California money transmitter licensees.  PayPal has established this current practice in part to maintain potential eligibility of those funds for pass-through Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation (FDIC) insurance coverage when those funds are placed in U.S. bank accounts.  PayPal has requested the DFI to grant a waiver that would allow PayPal to continue to hold those funds as an agent or custodian on behalf of customers and still qualify those funds as liquid assets. The DFI has indicated that it cannot grant a waiver under its interpretation of current law and that PayPal must become compliant before the end of 2012.  A change to direct ownership will likely disqualify the funds from pass-through FDIC insurance, and could also result in decreased revenue to PayPal if it decides to shift the funds from interest-bearing bank accounts to securities that bear lower interest rates.  Any potential decrease in revenue to PayPal resulting from this change is not expected to be material. This would also result in these funds, which are currently not reported as assets owned by PayPal on our consolidated balance sheet, moving onto our consolidated balance sheet (along with the accompanying liabilities).  For additional information, please see “Part I - Item 2: Management's Discussion and Analysis of Financial Condition and Results of Operations” under the caption “Off-Balance Sheet Arrangements,” above. As of June 30, 2012, these funds totaled approximately $3 billion. In markets other than the U.S., the EU, Australia, the China domestic business and Brazil, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Private Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore. PayPal Private Ltd. is regulated in Singapore as a stored value issuer. In many of these markets, it is not clear whether PayPal's Singapore-based service is subject only to Singaporean law or, if it were subject to local laws, whether such local law would require a payment processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial institution or otherwise. In such markets, the business may rely on partnerships with local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange in local currency. Local regulators who do not have direct jurisdiction over Singapore-based PayPal Private Ltd. may use their local regulatory power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through the local banking partner. Such regulatory actions impacting local banking partner arrangements could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of PayPal services in that market, or could prevent PayPal from providing any services in a given market. The Reserve Bank of India has asserted that PayPal's previous offering of payment services to customers outside of India to send personal, non-commercial payments to recipients in India required a license from the Reserve Bank. For a period of time in 2010, the Reserve Bank directed the Indian affiliate of PayPal's processing bank to suspend withdrawals to the Indian bank accounts of PayPal customers for both personal and business customers. PayPal has ended personal non-commercial payments to and from Indian accounts and has ended the ability of Indian sellers to spend payments they receive, and has also stopped offering certain commercial payments between Indian buyers and Indian sellers. In November 2010, the Reserve Bank of India issued guidelines to Indian banks on the requirements for processing export-related transactions for online payment gateway service providers such as PayPal, including a limitation on the amount of individual transactions to no more than $500 (increased in October 2011 to $3,000). The Reserve Bank may again impose a suspension if it is not satisfied with PayPal's and its partner bank's actions to comply with these guidelines. In the event of any non-compliance, PayPal could be subject to fines from the Reserve Bank, and PayPal's prospects for future business in India, both cross-border and domestic, could be materially and adversely affected. Even if PayPal is not currently required to be licensed in some jurisdictions, future localization or targeted marketing of PayPal's service or expansion of the financial products offered by PayPal (whether alone, through a commercial alliance or through an acquisition) in those countries could subject PayPal to additional licensure requirements, laws and regulations and increased regulatory scrutiny, any of which may harm PayPal's business. For example, PayPal will be required to obtain licenses in Japan and Russia to expand its services in those countries, and has applied for such licenses. There can be no assurance that PayPal will be able to obtain such licenses. Even if PayPal were able to obtain such licenses, there would be substantial costs involved in maintaining such licenses, and PayPal would be subject to fines or other enforcement action if it violates disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements of such licenses. These factors could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of PayPal's products. Delay or failure to receive such a license or regulatory approval could require PayPal to change its business practices or features in ways that would adversely affect PayPal's expansion plans, and force PayPal to suspend providing products and services to customers in one or more countries. PayPal is also subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. PayPal is focused on compliance with these laws and regulations and has programs designed to comply with new and existing legal and regulatory requirements. However, any errors, failures or delays in complying with federal, state or foreign anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties and forfeiture of significant assets or other enforcement actions. In the U.S., PayPal is subject to regulations that require it to report, within required timeframes, suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more, and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. New regulations on prepaid access programs which took full effect in March 2012 require PayPal to take additional steps to verify the identity of customers who pre-fund a PayPal balance. U.S. regulators have increased scrutiny of compliance with these obligations. Existing and new regulations may require PayPal to revise further its compliance program, including the procedures it uses to verify the identity of its customers and to monitor international and domestic transactions. Several countries in which PayPal is regulated, including Australia, Luxembourg and Singapore, have implemented new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and PayPal has had to make changes to its procedures in response. In November 2009, the Australian anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regulator (AUSTRAC) accepted an enforceable undertaking from PayPal Australia pursuant to which PayPal Australia agreed, among other things, to appoint an independent auditor to assess PayPal Australia's anti-money laundering compliance policies and procedures and issue a report identifying any unremediated deficiencies accompanied by a plan by PayPal to remedy any such deficiencies. In the enforceable undertaking, AUSTRAC expressed concern that PayPal Australia did not have systems and controls in place to manage adequately its money laundering and terrorist financing risk. In September 2010, the independent auditor completed its review and issued its report, and PayPal Australia submitted a remediation plan, which has been accepted by AUSTRAC. PayPal Australia has invested in improvements to its anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing systems, policies and operations as part of its remediation plan. In addition, PayPal Australia is required to obtain additional information from customers, verify that information, and monitor its customers' activities more closely. As PayPal continues to localize its services in additional jurisdictions, it could be required to meet standards similar to or more burdensome than those in Australia. The European Commission has also announced a consultation process to consider revisions to the European Anti-Money Laundering Directive. These requirements could impose significant costs on PayPal, cause delay to other planned product improvements, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the attractiveness of its products. Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date, PayPal has taken actions as though its service is subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board. Under such regulations, among other things, PayPal is required to provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, to follow specified error resolution procedures and to reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer. PayPal seeks to pass most of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its PayPal account. Additionally, even technical violations of these laws can result in penalties of up to $1,000 for each non-compliant transaction or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action, and we could also be liable for plaintiffs' attorneys' fees. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. PayPal, Inc. and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) were filed in the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations related to violations of aspects of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E and violations of a previous settlement agreement related to Regulation E, and/or allege that PayPal improperly held users' funds or otherwise improperly limited users' accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal's practices among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Regulation E or violations of other laws relating to PayPal's practices could expose PayPal to significant liability. Any changes to PayPal's practices resulting from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend substantial resources, which could delay other planned product launches or improvements and further harm our business. In January 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau finalized new rules under Regulation E, mandated by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which will require PayPal, starting in February 2013, to provide additional disclosures, error resolution rights and cancellation rights to U.S. consumers who make international remittance payments. These new requirements could increase our costs of processing international payments and could adversely affect our business. Our Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to a variety of laws and regulations. Although we do not originate loans under the Bill Me Later service, we do purchase receivables related to the consumer loans extended by the bank which originates them. One or more jurisdictions may conclude that the eBay company which purchases those receivables is a lender or money transmitter or loan broker, which could subject us to liability or regulation in such jurisdictions. As described under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above, a lawsuit was filed against Bill Me Later in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that in its relationship with the former issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products, Bill Me Later was acting as the true lender to customers in violation of various California laws, including the state's usury law. Additionally, federal regulators could mandate changes to the relationship between us and the issuing bank of the Bill Me Later credit products. Any termination or interruption of the issuing bank's lending services to consumers could result in an interruption of Bill Me Later services, as described under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above. Given that our Payments business is subject to regulations in the manner described above, any determination that we have not properly complied with laws and regulations or any instances in which we are criminally indicted or found to have violated a criminal statute or regulation could adversely impact our regulatory status in one or more jurisdictions, which would harm our business. The listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may harm our business. We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our service by our users infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual property rights. See “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above. Although we have sought to work actively with the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners have actively asserted their purported rights against online companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights have resulted in threatened and actual litigation against us from time to time by rights owners, including litigation brought by luxury brand owners such as Tiffany & Co. in the U.S.; Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany; Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France; and L'Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. The plaintiffs in these cases seek to hold eBay liable for alleged counterfeit items listed on our sites by third parties; for “tester” and other consumer products labeled in a manner to prevent resale and for unboxed and other allegedly nonconforming products in each case listed on our sites by third parties; for the alleged misuse of trademarks or copyrights in listings or otherwise on our sites and in connection with paid search advertisements; for alleged violations of selective distribution channel laws or parallel import laws for listings of authentic items; and for alleged non-compliance with consumer protection laws. Such plaintiffs seek, among other remedies, injunctive relief and damages. In the aggregate, these suits could result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could, individually or in the aggregate, adversely affect our business. There are approximately 36,000 rights owners in our verified rights owner (VeRO) program, and each rights owner has anywhere from one to several hundred brands. Statutory damages for copyright or trademark violations could range up to $30,000 per copyright violation and $100,000 per trademark violation in the U.S., and may be even higher in other jurisdictions. These and similar suits may force us to modify our business practices, which could lower our revenue, increase our costs or make our websites less convenient to our customers, any of which could materially harm our business. In addition, rights owners have aggressively sought to reduce the applicability of limitations to intellectual property rights such as copyright exhaustion and the first sales doctrine in cases such as Vernor v. Autodesk Inc. (Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals) and Wiley v. Kirtsaeng (Second Circuit Court of Appeals, currently on appeal to the U.S. Supreme Court). To the extent such doctrines are limited, the supply of goods available for resale on our sites may be adversely affected. In addition to litigation from rights owners, we may be subject to regulatory, civil or criminal proceedings and penalties if governmental authorities believe we have aided in the sale of counterfeit goods. While we have had some early success in defending against such litigation, more recent cases have been based, at least in part, on different legal theories than those of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in defending against such litigation. Plaintiffs in recent cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe harbors under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a hosting provider in the European Union under the Electronic Commerce Directive because of the alleged active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and that whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should be found liable because we supposedly have not adequately removed listings that are counterfeit or are authentic but allegedly violate trademark or copyright law or effectively suspended users who have created such listings. While we do not believe the European Court of Justice decision in the L'Oréal case (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above) changes the standard for hosting immunity under the Electronic Commerce directive, rights owners in European jurisdictions have asserted that our degree of participation in the transaction should cause us to be unable to take advantage of the hosting immunity exception. Final resolution of this issue has been left to the national courts of countries in the European Union. We believe that the legal climate, especially in Europe, is becoming more adverse to our positions, which may require us to take actions which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, or make our websites less convenient to our customers, any of which could materially harm our business. In addition, a public perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on our sites, even if factually incorrect, would damage our reputation, lower the price our sellers receive for their items and damage our business. We are continuously seeking to improve and modify our efforts to eliminate counterfeit and pirated items through ongoing business initiatives designed to reduce bad buyer experiences and improve customer satisfaction and by responding to new patterns we are seeing among counterfeiters and others committing fraud on our users. Increased intermediation of transactions between buyers and sellers, which we generally refer to as our Managed Marketplace initiative, may result in us being unable to rely, to the same extent that we have in the past, on hosting immunity and other secondary liability safe harbors when sued by users and rights owners over actions taken on our site by our users. While we are taking steps to mitigate this impact on our safe harbor defenses, we may be subject to more intellectual property litigation and may lose more cases as a result of these business model changes, which would adversely affect our business. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may also seek to bring legal action against entities that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the use of PayPal's payment services in a transaction involving the sale of infringing items, including on our websites, our business could be harmed. Several jurisdictions have adopted new laws in these areas, and others are considering imposing additional restrictions. In addition, new laws have been proposed regulating Internet companies with respect to intellectual property issues. For example, ACTA and TPP are trade agreements that include international standards for enforcing intellectual property rights, including provisions regarding counterfeit goods and online piracy. The European Commission is considering revising the Intellectual Property Enforcement Directive, which could potentially increase our exposure to enforcement actions from rights owners. Implementation of these or similar laws could require us to change our business practices, increase our compliance costs and harm our business. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties' patents. We are a defendant in a number of patent suits and we have been notified of several other potential patent disputes. We expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our Marketplaces, Payments and GSI segments as our products and services continue to expand in scope and complexity (e.g., our mobile, local, social and digital initiatives), as we expand into new businesses, including through acquisitions, and as the universe of patent owners who may claim that we, companies that we have acquired, or our customers infringe their patents and the aggregate number of patents controlled by such patent owners correspondingly increases. Such claims may be brought directly against our companies and/or against our customers (whom we may indemnify either because we are contractually obligated to do so or as a business matter). We and other technology companies have seen more of these claims from an increasing number of third parties whose sole or primary business is to assert such claims. In addition, we have seen significant patent disputes between operating companies in some technology industries (e.g., mobile telephony). Patent claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations, which would harm our business. Use of our services for illegal purposes could harm our business. We may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or unlawful services, or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. We have been subject to several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In December 2004, an executive of Baazee.com, our Indian subsidiary, was arrested in connection with a user's listing of a pornographic video clip on that website. The charges related to this arrest were recently quashed. Similarly, one of our Korean subsidiaries (IAC) and one of its employees were found criminally liable for listings (which occurred prior to our acquisition of IAC) on IAC's website. The German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may have a duty to take reasonable measures to prevent prohibited DVDs from being sold on our site to minors and that competitors may be able to enforce this duty. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws, including antiscalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, distance selling laws and the sale of items outside of the U.S. that are regulated by U.S. export controls. As we seek to reduce bad buying experiences and improve the customer experience on our sites, our level of interaction with buyers and sellers may increase over time, which could in turn increase our potential exposure to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. Although we have prohibited the listing of illegal and stolen goods and certain high-risk items and implemented other protective measures, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, any of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our business. Certain manufacturers and large retailers have sought new U.S. federal and state legislation regarding stolen goods that could limit our ability to allow sellers to use our sites without confirming the source of, and their legal rights to sell, the underlying goods. In addition, from time to time we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal goods and stolen goods using our services. This negative publicity could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names and make users reluctant to use our services. PayPal's payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses, including illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software, movies, music and other copyrighted or trademarked goods, money laundering, terrorist financing, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, online securities fraud and encouraging, promoting, facilitating or instructing others to engage in illegal activities. There has been an increased focus by rights owners and U.S. government officials on the role that payments systems play in the sale of, and payment for, pirated digital goods on the Internet. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities and additional payments-related proposals are under active consideration by government policymakers. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, illegal activities could still be funded using PayPal. Any resulting claims, liabilities or loss of transaction volume could harm our business. If our GSI business is unable to enhance its platform and migrate clients to its new platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would be substantially harmed. Our GSI business is in the process of enhancing and unbundling the components of its ecommerce and payments platform and migrating its existing customers to its new platform. This project is very expensive and time consuming and involves significant technical risk. Previously planned migrations of certain clients to the new platform have been delayed into 2012 and beyond. If client migrations to the new platform continue to be delayed, the functionality of the new platform is not accepted by GSI's existing clients or prospective clients targeted by GSI, the new platform contains an unacceptable amount of design flaws or does not perform or operate as expected, or GSI fails to meet client commitments and services level agreements, GSI could be subject to substantial penalties under its agreements with its clients (including significant financial penalties and termination rights for its affected clients), its relationships with its clients and their respective businesses could be substantially harmed, and GSI clients may seek to terminate their contracts with GSI early based on actual or proposed breach. In addition, GSI's new platform also provides for substantially more client control over certain platform functionality, such as promotions and marketing, operations and performance analytics. If GSI is unable to help clients understand, assess and address their internal preparedness needs for the new platform, this could result in delays in deployment, client dissatisfaction due to lack of preparedness, degraded site performance, and additional support costs attributable to client-induced issues. We believe that GSI's ability to secure new clients and retain current clients will be negatively impacted until GSI is able to successfully roll out the new platform in a live client implementation. Any of these events or circumstances could materially and adversely affect our GSI business. Even if accomplished successfully, this development and migration project may cost more than expected or take longer than currently planned, which could harm our GSI business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our service. The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services remains unsettled in many jurisdictions. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability under a number of these theories have been brought against us, as well as other online service companies. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our Marketplaces service features a Feedback Forum, which includes information from users regarding other users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could be made in the future against us for not removing content posted in the Feedback Forum. Furthermore, several court decisions arguably have narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers like us in the U.S. under the Communications Decency Act. For example, the Ninth Circuit has held that certain immunity provisions under the Communications Decency Act might not apply to the extent that a website owner materially contributes to the development of unlawful content on its website. As our websites evolve, challenges to the applicability of these immunities can be expected to continue. In addition, the Paris Court of Appeal has ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that applicable laws protecting passive Internet “hosts” from liability are inapplicable to eBay given that eBay actively promotes bidding on its sellers' listings and receives a commission on successful transactions, and is therefore a broker. The ECJ decision in the L'Oréal case (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above) gave broad discretion to national courts in Europe to determine if Internet hosting immunity applies to eBay. Accordingly, our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled, may increase. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties. A large number of transactions occur on our websites on a daily basis. Government regulators have received a significant number of consumer complaints about eBay, PayPal and GSI, which, while small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been contacted by various U.S. and foreign governmental regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure practices from the Federal Trade Commission and regarding these and other business practices from the attorneys general of a number of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase educational messaging to users about funding choices and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. From time to time, we face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to actions that we have taken that are designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites and we may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. For example, in 2008, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. Other regulators have requested information concerning PayPal's limitations of customer accounts. Similarly, Bill Me Later has from time to time received customer complaints that could result in investigations into Bill Me Later's business practices by state or federal regulators. As a result of the recent credit crisis, new laws have been, and additional new laws and regulations are expected to be, adopted that impose additional obligations and restrictions on the provision of credit, among other requirements. We are likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, including under existing or new credit laws or regulations, which may lead to action against us. We have responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures, operating procedures and disclosures of the relevant business. If one or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties, or forced to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes. From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our company has grown larger, our businesses have expanded in scope (e.g., our mobile, local, social and digital initiatives) and our products and services have increased in complexity. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the courts as our products and services to users continues to expand and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable. As an increasing portion of our business shifts to mobile, we may be subject to additional laws, such as the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, which have significant penalties. The Federal Communications Commission has recently amended its regulations under the Telephone Consumer Protection Act, effective in July 2012, which could increase our exposure to liability for certain types of telephonic communication with customers, including but not limited to text messages to mobile phones. We are also subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws of general applicability, including laws regulating working conditions. Any claims or regulatory actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, damage awards (including statutory damages for certain causes of action in certain jurisdictions), injunctive relief, or increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or settlement, require us to change our business practices in expensive ways, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate. Beginning in 2009, we have transitioned buyers in the U.S., U.K. and Germany to a dispute resolution (“resolutions”) process provided by eBay customer support, which now serves as the primary entry point for buyers in these countries if they are unable to resolve their disputes with eBay sellers. Among other things, the resolutions process provides that eBay will generally reimburse the buyer for the full amount of an item's purchase price (including original shipping costs) in cases where the item was not received or the item they received was different from that described in the listing and the seller does not provide adequate resolution to the buyer. eBay then attempts to recoup amounts paid to the buyer from the seller's PayPal accounts or through other collection methods. Our costs associated with resolutions have increased as a result of these changes to our resolutions policies and process, in part because eBay may not have the same level of rights of recoupment against sellers as PayPal, resulting in higher costs to operate the program. These changes, together with any further changes that we may make to our resolutions process in the future, may be negatively received by, and lead to dissatisfaction on the part of, some of our sellers, and may also result in an increase in buyer fraud and associated transaction losses. In the event of the bankruptcy or other business interruption of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (e.g., airline, cruise or concert tickets, custom-made goods and subscriptions), eBay and/or PayPal could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services, either through its buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payment through PayPal. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may be insufficient and our operating results could be adversely affected. Failure to deal effectively with bad transactions and customer disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our business. Over the last several years, we have enhanced the buyer and seller protections offered by PayPal in certain eBay marketplaces, and in certain countries for transactions outside of eBay marketplaces. These changes to PayPal's buyer and seller protection program could result in future changes and fluctuations in our Payments transaction loss rate. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the six months ended June 30, 2012, our Payments transaction losses (including both direct losses and buyer protection payouts) totaled $246 million and $130 million, representing 0.21% and 0.19% of our net total payment volume, respectively. Beginning in 2009, we have also changed the dispute resolution process for transactions on eBay.com, eBay.co.uk and eBay.de, as described in more detail above under the caption “Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate,” which could result in an increase in our combined eBay and PayPal transaction losses. PayPal's highly automated and liquid payment service makes PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using stolen credit card or bank account numbers can potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal's current and former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone out of business or significantly restricted their businesses largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent PayPal's anti-fraud systems using increasingly sophisticated methods. From time to time, such fraudsters may discover and exploit vulnerabilities that may not immediately be identified and remediated, which may in turn result in one-time increases in fraud and associated transaction losses. In addition, because users frequently use the same passwords for different sites, a data breach of a third party site can result in a spike in transaction losses. Finally, PayPal's service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches. Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud. Additional fraud risks associated with PayPal's point of sale solutions are described below under the caption “PayPal's point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks."" PayPal incurs substantial losses due to claims from buyers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant's description, whether those claims arise from merchant fraud or from an unintentional failure to perform by the merchant. PayPal seeks to recover such losses from the merchant, but may not be able to recover in full if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from erroneous transmissions and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. In addition, if losses incurred by PayPal related to payment card transactions become excessive, they could potentially result in PayPal losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would materially and adversely affect PayPal's business both on and off eBay. In the event that PayPal was unable to accept payment cards, the velocity of trade on eBay and websites operated by GSI's clients that accept PayPal as a form of payment could also decrease, in which case our business would further suffer. The Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, users of the Bill Me Later service and third parties handling its user information. Our Payments business has taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business will suffer. eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from users who may not have received the goods that they had purchased. In some cases, individuals have been arrested and convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay also receives complaints from sellers who have not received payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the item, or because the buyer bid on the item maliciously in order to harm either the seller or eBay. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While eBay can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through our buyer protection programs. Our limited eBay and PayPal buyer protection programs represent the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased, or have received an item different than what was described. However, users who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their credit card company or bank, which in turn will seek recovery from PayPal. eBay also periodically receives complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is only beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for third-party actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our Marketplaces, Payments and GSI services could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users and diminish the value of our brand names. We believe that negative user experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using our services. From time to time, we have considered more active mechanisms designed to combat bad buyer experiences and increase buyer satisfaction, including evaluating sellers on the basis of their transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity as a result. For example, in the U.S. and the U.K., we may request that PayPal hold seller funds in certain instances (e.g., for sellers with a limited selling history or below-standard performance ratings), which is intended to help improve seller performance and increase buyer satisfaction. We may expand the scope of such programs in the future and introduce other programs with similar aims in these and other countries. Our increased usage of these or other mechanisms to attempt to improve buyer satisfaction could result in dissatisfaction on the part of sellers, loss of share to competing marketplaces, reduced selection of inventory on our sites and other adverse effects. Governmental regulators worldwide are also evaluating approaches intended to reduce online fraud. Some of the current proposals (e.g., two-factor authentication in France to verify a user's identity) could increase our costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner that could harm our business. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade could harm our business. Cross-border trade has become an increasingly important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border transactions using our websites generally provide higher revenues and gross margins than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. We generally earn higher transaction fees for cross-border transactions involving PayPal, and our Marketplaces business continues to represent a relatively straightforward way for buyers and sellers to engage in cross-border trade compared with other alternatives. Cross-border trade also represents our primary (or in some cases, only) presence in certain markets in which Internet use is accelerating and we have a limited (or no) domestic Marketplaces business (e.g., Brazil/Latin America, China, Russia and various developing countries). The interpretation and application of specific national or regional laws, such as those related to intellectual property rights of authentic products and those related to selective distribution networks to sellers in other countries listing on the Internet and the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the buyer, the seller, and/or the location of the item being sold) are extremely complicated in the context of cross-border trade. Some of these issues are involved in the L'Oréal and Louis Vuitton Malletier cases (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above). To the extent any interpretation or application of such laws imposes restrictions on, or increases the costs of, purchasing, selling or shipping goods across national borders, our business would be harmed. Any additional factors that increase the costs of purchasing, selling or shipping goods across national borders or make it more difficult to do so in practice, including fluctuations in currency exchange rates, delivery service rates, currency restrictions, export control laws, customs enforcement, court rulings and the application of (or increases in) tariffs, duties or other taxes on imports or exports, or that otherwise would result in a net reduction in cross-border trade on our sites, would adversely affect our business. As part of our ongoing efforts to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency and buyer experience, we are evaluating opportunities to potentially become more actively involved in different aspects of cross-border transactions, which could potentially expose us to additional liability based upon our involvement in aspects of such transactions and/or the actions of our users in more countries. Our cross-border trade is also subject to, and impacted by currency exchange rate fluctuations, as discussed under the caption “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates” above. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation and potential liability. An increasing number of websites, including several other large Internet companies, have recently disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, public perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users' proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Data security breaches may also result from non-technical means, for example, actions by a suborned employee. GSI's clients also face similar risks of security breaches, and to the extent that such clients are harmed as a result of a security breach, GSI's business would also be adversely affected. A significant number of our users authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. For example, PayPal's users routinely provide credit card and other financial information, and GSI customers routinely provide credit card information and other personally identifiable information which we maintain to facilitate the ease of future transactions. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer payment card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Financial services regulators in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. and the EU, have implemented or are considering proposals to impose new authentication requirements on banks and payment processors. These requirements could impose significant costs on PayPal, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the ease of use of its products. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by PayPal's direct payment card processing customers, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if customer information has not been compromised, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our businesses would be seriously damaged. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have, in certain instances, made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. For example, in December 2010, PayPal was subject to a series of distributed “denial of service” attacks following PayPal's decision to indefinitely restrict the account used by WikiLeaks due to an alleged violation of PayPal's Acceptable Use Policy. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breaches of our security measures or those of parties with which we have commercial relationships (e.g., our clients and third-party service providers) that result in the unauthorized release of users' personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users' computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay, PayPal, a GSI client, or one of our other businesses (e.g., StubHub), or by a user of one of our businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via email or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” activities remain a serious problem that may damage our brands, discourage use of our websites and increase our costs. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users, especially for financial information and for users located outside of the U.S. As an entity licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg, PayPal (Europe) S.à r.l et Cie, SCA is subject to banking secrecy laws. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions, but also to transfers of information between ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. In particular, the collection and use of personal information by companies has come under increased regulatory scrutiny. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux, and may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country. The European Union recently proposed new data laws that give customers additional rights and provide additional restrictions and harsher penalties on companies for illegal collection and misuse of personal information, including restrictions on the use of Internet tracking tools called “cookies”. While the European Union directive on cookies has taken effect, the manner in which member states adopt implementing legislation, and whether the European Union deems that legislation sufficient, continues to evolve. To the extent implementing legislation by member states is more restrictive, it could negatively impact the manner in which we use cookies for many of our services, ranging from advertising to anti-fraud, and require us to incur additional costs or change our business practices, any of which could harm our business. The European Union has announced proposed changes to the European Data Protection Directive, the Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, and the White House have both proposed U.S. privacy frameworks, and a number of other countries in which we operate have either recently passed privacy legislation or are in the process of doing so. Our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with new laws and regulations or evolving interpretations and applications. It is unclear how the application of existing privacy laws and regulations will impact mobile services and technologies, which are evolving rapidly. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. In addition, we have and post on our websites our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations (or, in the case of our GSI businesses, any such failure or perceived failure on the part of GSI or GSI's clients) could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others (e.g., class action privacy litigation), subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity, require us to change our business practices, increase our costs and adversely affect our business. For example, the FTC has recently entered into a number of consent decrees with major online companies, including Facebook and Google, to settle allegations of unfair or deceptive privacy practices. The FTC's consent decrees with Facebook and Google require those companies to implement a comprehensive privacy program and undergo regular, independent privacy audits for the next 20 years, among other requirements. Certain of our businesses, including GSI's interactive marketing services business, utilize “behavioral marketing” (generally, the tracking of a user's online activities) to deliver relevant content to Internet users. The FTC has released a Staff Report with principles to address consumer privacy issues that may arise from behavioral marketing and to encourage industry self-regulation. In March 2012, the FTC issued a final report titled “Protecting Consumer Privacy in an Era of Rapid Change: Recommendations for Businesses and Policymakers,” which details the FTC's perspective on best practices for companies that collect and use consumer data to protect the privacy of consumers. Legislators and regulators in various jurisdictions are increasingly focusing on the capture and use of location-based information relating to users of smartphones and other mobile devices, which may result in additional restrictions being placed on the collection and use of such information. Any such regulations or legislation could, if enacted, prohibit the use of certain technologies, including those that track individuals' activities on the Internet or geolocation via mobile devices. Such laws and regulations could restrict our ability to collect and use page viewing data and personal information, which may reduce demand for our services or require changes to our current business models, such as advertising, which could harm our business. Data collection, privacy and security have become the subject of increasing public concern. If Internet and mobile users were to reduce their use of our websites and services as a result, our business could be harmed. As noted above, we are also subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Our revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our control. We derive significant revenue from advertising on our websites and applications. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such as general changes in the economy and changes in consumer spending, the effectiveness of online advertising versus offline advertising media and the value our websites provide to advertisers relative to other websites. The economic downturn adversely impacted our advertising revenue. In addition, major search engine operators have the ability to change from time to time, at their sole discretion, the rules and search algorithms governing the pricing, availability and placement of online advertising. Any changes in these rules or search algorithms could materially reduce the value that we derive from online advertising on our websites, either directly or indirectly. For example, retailers pay a fee to Shopping.com for online shoppers directed to their websites by our Shopping.com website. Rule changes made by search engines beginning in 2008 disrupted traffic to our Shopping.com website, which in turn adversely affected click-through traffic to retailers from our Shopping.com website and associated fee revenue. Finally, legislators and regulators in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. and the European Union, are reviewing Internet advertising models and the use of user-related data, including location-based information relating to users of smartphones and other mobile devices, and are considering proposals that could restrict or otherwise impact these business models and practices. If we experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to economic, competitive, regulatory, technological or other factors, or the renegotiation of the terms of our contracts with major advertising companies, or a reduction in our ability to effectively place advertisements on our sites, or are otherwise unable to provide value to our advertisers, our business and financial results would suffer. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require a continued focus on active marketing efforts across all of our brands. We will need to continue to spend substantial amounts of money on, and devote substantial resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Since 2005, we have significantly increased the number of brands we are supporting, adding Shopping.com, our classified websites (including Den Blå Avis, BilBasen, eBay Classifieds (including eBay Anuncios, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), Gumtree, Kijiji, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl, mobile.de and Alamaula), StubHub, Bill Me Later, Gmarket, Milo, WHERE, RedLaser, Zong and GSI, among others. Each of these brands requires its own resources, increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. Also, major search engine operators that we use to advertise our brands have frequently changing rules that govern the pricing, availability and placement of online advertisements (e.g., paid search, keywords), and changes to these rules could negatively affect our ability to use online advertising to promote our brands in a cost-effective manner. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business would be harmed. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity and personal privacy apply to online businesses such as ours. The majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the U.S. “CAN-SPAM” Act and the European Union's Directives on Distance Selling and Electronic Commerce, are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. As our activities, the types of goods and services listed on our websites, and products and services we offer expand, including through acquisitions such as Bill Me Later and StubHub, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to licensure or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions (e.g., the sale of real estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats and automobiles). Recent financial and political events may increase the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies in general, and financial services companies in particular, and regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past and in a manner adverse to our businesses. Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing businesses that perceive our business model to be a threat to their business to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators. These established businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. In particular, these established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. Changing the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Over the last few years some large retailers and their trade associations have sought legislation in a number of states and the U.S. Congress that would make eBay liable for the sale of stolen property or would ban certain categories of goods from sale on our platform, including gift cards and health and beauty products. While no such legislation has passed to date, the proponents continue to seek passage of such legislation, and if any of these laws are adopted they could harm our business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, where our headquarters are located, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions, including France, have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to impose such regulations upon us or our users. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing. In France, we have been sued by Conseil des Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority, which has alleged that sales on our French website constitute illegal auctions that cannot be performed without its consent. We have won this lawsuit at the trial and appeals court levels, but it may be subject to further appeal. A lawsuit alleging similar claims has been brought against us by two associations of French antique dealers, and is now pending on appeal after we won in the first instance. We intend to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. However, these and other regulatory and licensure claims and enforcement actions could result in costly litigation and, if unsuccessful, we could be required to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues (for example, by forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items or restrict certain listing formats in some locations). We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder's consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide and we facilitate sales of goods and provide services to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, in the Louis Vuitton Malletier litigation, we were found liable in France, under French law, for transactions on some of our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers or sellers (see “Item 1: Legal Proceedings” above). Laws regulating Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the U.S. are generally be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, competitors, users and other third parties. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on us or our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to multiple overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us (e.g., in cross-border trade). Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. Following the global financial crisis, U.S. federal lawmakers enacted the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in 2010 overhauling the federal government's oversight of consumer financial products and systemic risk in the U.S. financial system. Although the full effect of the new legislation will be dependent on regulations to be adopted by a number of different agencies (including the recently created Consumer Financial Protection Bureau), we expect the general effect of the financial reform law will be to require PayPal and Bill Me Later to make additional disclosures to their users and to impose new restrictions on certain of their activities. These new obligations will impose new compliance requirements and obligations on us, increase our costs and may result in increased litigation, the need to make expensive product changes and other adverse impacts on our business. In addition, we also expect that the continued implementation of the financial reform law enacted in 2010 will adversely impact some significant traditional revenue streams for banks. For example, in June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule capping debit card interchange fees. As a result of this and other regulations implementing the financial reform law, banks may need to revise their business models to remain profitable, which may lead them to charge more for services which were previously provided for free or at lower cost. Any resulting increases in service fees required for PayPal to process transactions (e.g., service fees for automated clearing house transactions) would increase our costs and could adversely affect our business. In addition, in January 2012, the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau finalized new regulations, required by the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act, which will require PayPal, starting in February 2013, to provide additional disclosures, error resolution rights and cancellation rights to U.S. consumers who make international remittance payments. These new requirements could increase our costs of processing international payments and could adversely affect our business. Changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm PayPal's business. PayPal does not directly access payment card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, which enable PayPal's acceptance of credit cards and debit cards (including some types of prepaid cards). As a result, PayPal must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions, and must pay fees for this service. From time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. PayPal's payment card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to PayPal as well as increase their own fees for processing. Changes in interchange fees and assessments could increase PayPal's operating costs and reduce its profit margins. In addition, in some jurisdictions, governments have required Visa and MasterCard to reduce interchange fees, or have opened investigations as to whether Visa or MasterCard's interchange fees and practices violate antitrust law. In the U.S., the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act enacted in 2010 authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to regulate debit card interchange rates and debit card network exclusivity provisions, and in June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board issued a final rule capping debit card interchange fees at significantly lower rates than Visa or MasterCard previously charged. Any material reduction in credit or debit card interchange rates in the U.S. or other markets could jeopardize PayPal's competitive position against traditional credit and debit card processors. While the regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board in June 2011 do not treat PayPal as a “payment card network,” future changes to those regulations or to PayPal's business could potentially cause PayPal to be treated as a payment card network, which could subject PayPal to additional regulation and require PayPal to change its business practices, which could reduce PayPal's revenue and adversely affect PayPal's business. PayPal is required by its processors to comply with payment card network operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by PayPal or PayPal's customers. The payment card networks set and interpret the card rules. Payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or costly to implement. As a result, PayPal could lose its ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments, or could lose its ability to give customers the choice of currency in which they would like their card to be charged, which would reduce PayPal's revenues from cross-border trade. If PayPal were unable to accept payment cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In addition, the velocity of trade on eBay and websites operated by GSI's clients that accept PayPal as a form of payment could decrease and our business would further suffer. PayPal is also required to comply with payment card networks' special operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal and its payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchant customers in order to comply with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in fines, the amount of which would be within the payment card networks' discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines from payment card networks if it fails to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. For “high risk” merchants, PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using PayPal or register such merchants with payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has incurred fines from its payment card processors relating to PayPal's failure to detect the use of its service by “high risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has not been material, but did increase in 2011 compared to prior years. Any additional fines in the future would likely be for larger amounts, could become material and could result in a termination of PayPal's ability to accept payment cards or changes in PayPal's process for registering new customers, which would seriously damage PayPal's business. Similarly, consumers of the websites operated by GSI's clients typically pay for purchases by payment card or similar payment method. Accordingly, our GSI ecommerce services business faces risks similar to the risks described above for PayPal. Bill Me Later's operations expose us to additional risks. Risks associated with our reliance on an unaffiliated lender in providing the Bill Me Later service are discussed in more detail under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above. The Bill Me Later service relies on third-party merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the six months ended June 30, 2012, approximately 69% and 63%, respectively, of all transaction volume by dollar amount through the Bill Me Later service was settled through the facilities of a single vendor. Any disruption to these third party payment processing and gateway services would adversely affect the Bill Me Later service. The Bill Me Later service is offered to a wide range of consumers, and the financial success of this business depends on the ability of the issuing bank of the Bill Me Later credit products to manage credit risk related to those products. The lender extends credit using Bill Me Later's proprietary segmentation and credit scoring algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific customers based on their past purchasing and payment history as well as their credit scores. Based on these performance criteria, the lender may extend or increase lines of credit to consumers at the point of sale. These algorithms and techniques may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer due to inaccurate assumptions about a particular consumer or the economic environment, among other factors. The accuracy of the predictions and the ability of the lender and Bill Me Later to manage credit risk related to the Bill Me Later service may also be affected by legal or regulatory changes (e.g., bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations), competitors' actions, changes in consumer behavior and other factors. The lender may incorrectly interpret the data produced by these algorithms in setting its credit policies, which may impact the financial performance of the Bill Me Later service. In addition, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. may affect consumer confidence levels and reduce consumers' ability or willingness to use credit, including the credit extended by the lender to consumers who use the Bill Me Later service, which could impair the growth and profitability of this business. We anticipate that the volume of credit extended by WebBank (the financial institution issuing the Bill Me Later credit products) will increase as we continue to enable qualified buyers with a PayPal account to use Bill Me Later as a payment funding option for transactions on eBay.com and on certain merchant websites that accept PayPal. We purchase the receivables relating to these consumer loans extended by the issuing bank, and therefore bear the risk of loss. Like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer credit, the Bill Me Later service faces the risk that account holders will default on their payment obligations, making the receivables uncollectible and creating the risk of potential charge-offs. The rate at which receivables were charged off as uncollectible, or the net charge-off rate, was approximately 4.46% and 4.59%, respectively, for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the six months ended June 30, 2012. The nonpayment rate among Bill Me Later users may increase due to, among other things, worsening economic conditions, such as a recession in the U.S., and high unemployment rates. Consumers who miss payments on their obligations often fail to repay them, and consumers who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their credit. We currently fund the purchase of receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts through the sale of commercial paper, our cash balances and free cash flow generated from our portfolio of businesses. Effective September 1, 2010, we have funded the purchase of receivables generated through new Bill Me Later accounts using funds from our international subsidiaries, and this funding is facilitated through our Luxembourg-based bank. A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit ratings, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue (or, in certain circumstances, could prevent us from making commercial paper borrowings), increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both. If we are unable to fund our purchase of receivables related to the Bill Me Later business adequately or in a cost-effective manner, the growth and profitability of this business would be significantly and adversely affected. Additionally, in providing the Bill Me Later service, we face other risks similar to those faced by PayPal described elsewhere in these Risk Factors, including under the captions “Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties” and “If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfer, money laundering, terrorist financing, sanctions, consumer protection, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices.” PayPal's retail point of sale solutions expose us to additional risks. PayPal has recently announced several retail point of sale solutions, including PayPal Here, which enables merchants to use a card reader attached to a mobile device (or to scan cards and checks using the device's embedded camera) to accept payment, as well as in-store pilot programs for new point of sale technologies, which are being rolled out on a limited basis to certain retailers in the U.S. As PayPal expands into point of sale transactions, PayPal will face even greater expectations from offline retailers regarding the reliability and availability of its systems and services and correspondingly lower amounts of downtime. PayPal's point of sale solutions may also be targeted by fraudsters; given that our fraud models are less developed in this area, we may experience increases in fraud and associated transaction losses as we adjust to fraudulent activity at the point of sale. The manufacturing and sale of a hardware product (the PayPal Here device) exposes us to potential product liability claims for which we could have substantial liability, and could require product recalls or other actions. PayPal's point of sale solutions also may subject us to increased exposure to other laws and regulations (e.g., export control regulations related to the shipment of the PayPal Here reader across national borders). There is significant competition at the retail point of sale, and there can be no assurance that merchants will adopt, or consumers will use, PayPal's retail point of sale solutions. Retail point of sale transactions also have lower profit margins than PayPal's other payment solutions. Unless we are able to drive adoption of, and significant volume through, our point of sale solutions over time, our business may suffer. Changes in PayPal's funding mix could adversely affect PayPal's results. PayPal pays significant transaction fees when customers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower fees when customers fund payments with debit cards, nominal fees when customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or through the Bill Me Later service, or use buyer credit issued by GE Money Bank. Customers fund a significant portion of PayPal's payment volume using credit and debit cards, and PayPal's financial success will remain highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its senders fund payments using credit and debit cards. Customers may prefer funding payment transactions using credit cards or debit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of reasons, including the ability to dispute and reverse charges directly with their payment card provider if merchandise is not delivered or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles, cash rebates, or other incentives offered by payment card issuers, the ability to defer payment, or a reluctance to provide bank account information to PayPal. In addition, some of PayPal's offerings, including the ability for buyers to make a limited number of payments without opening a PayPal account, have a higher rate of payment card funding than PayPal's basic product offering. Some of PayPal's plans to lower its funding costs, including both the Bill Me Later service and the ability for buyers to defer payment for a short period of time on some transactions, may increase the risk to PayPal of non-payment by buyers, PayPal's failure to manage customer funds properly could harm its business. PayPal's ability to manage and account accurately for customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and limited experience in managing these internal controls. As PayPal's business continues to grow, it must continue to strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal's success requires significant public confidence in its ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to manage customer funds accurately could severely diminish customer use of PayPal's products. Systems failures and resulting interruptions in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services could harm our business. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our websites, applications, products or services will reduce our current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and profits and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to 22 hours. In April 2012, technical systems issues resulted in eBay.com users being unable to checkout on our sites for a period of several hours. Our PayPal website has suffered intermittent unavailability for periods as long as five days, including unavailability for approximately three hours affecting payments primarily on our ebay.co.uk site in May 2011. Other of our websites (e.g., StubHub, Milo and others), as well as websites of GSI clients and hosted services offered by GSI's interactive marketing services business, have experienced intermittent unavailability from time to time. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues, as well as potential service credits or other payments by GSI to its clients. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical for PayPal, which faces increased expectations on the part of users and merchants regarding the full-time availability of PayPal's services as it seeks to expand its Merchant Services business and gain acceptance of its retail point of sale solutions. Because PayPal is a regulated financial institution, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to fines, penalties, or mandatory and costly changes to PayPal's business practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers' businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, human error, hardware or software defects or malfunctions (including defects or malfunctions of components of our systems that are supplied by third-party service providers), and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems, including our Shopping.com website and the systems related to the Bill Me Later business, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions and delays, and result in loss of critical data and lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. If we are unable to cost-effectively upgrade and expand our websites, services and platforms, our business would suffer. We must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our websites and platforms, and the new products and features we regularly introduce. As our PayPal business continues to grow and expand both in terms of geographies and product offerings (e.g., PayPal's retail point of sale solutions), we are focused on updating our PayPal platform to provide increased scale, improved performance and additional built-in functionality addressing regulatory compliance matters (e.g., anti-money laundering). This upgrade process is expensive and time-consuming, and the increased complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology, features, transaction processing systems, security infrastructure, or network infrastructure in a timely and cost-effective manner to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume or changes to our site functionality could harm our business. Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer support, impaired quality of users' experiences of our services, impaired quality of services for third-party application developers using our externally accessible application programming interfaces and delays in reporting accurate financial information, and could result in customer dissatisfaction and the loss of existing users on our websites. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do so could result in problems on our sites. Further, steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our margins and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. Risks associated with our ongoing efforts to enhance and unbundle the components of GSI's ecommerce and payments platform and to migrate GSI's existing customers to its new platform are discussed in more detail under the caption “If our GSI business is unable to enhance its platform and migrate clients to its new platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would be substantially harmed” above. There are many risks associated with our international operations. Our international expansion has been rapid and our international business, especially in Germany, Korea and the U.K., has also become critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 53% of our net revenues in both the fiscal year ended December 31, 2011 and the six months ended June 30, 2012. Expansion into international markets, such as our entry into Turkey in May 2011 upon the completion of our acquisition of additional shares in GittiGidiyor and PayPal's entry into emerging markets, are an increasing focus of our business. Geographical expansion requires significant management attention and resources and requires us to localize our services to conform to local cultures, laws, regulations, standards and policies. The commercial, financial, Internet, and transportation infrastructure in developing countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our business models. Some of these developing countries may have legal regimes in which the application of laws and regulations in the online or mobile context is subject to greater uncertainty, as well as a higher incidence of corruption and fraudulent or unethical business practices, than countries in which we are historically accustomed to operating. In many countries, we compete with local companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew our eBay marketplace offering from the Japanese market, and in 2007 we contributed our business in China to a joint venture with a local Chinese company. Even if we are successful in developing new markets, we often expect the costs of operating new sites to exceed our net revenues from those sites for at least 12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand our businesses internationally, including through acquisitions, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: strong local competitors; regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet and mobile services, auctioneering, professional selling, distance selling, privacy and data protection, banking and money transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain categories of goods, require product changes, require special licensure, subject us to various taxes, penalties or audits, or limit the transfer of information between us and our affiliates; customs and duties, including the possibility of significant delays at the border and the possibility that our services may be viewed as facilitating customs fraud; greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings and other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a result of legal systems that are less developed with respect to the Internet, unique local laws, conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; risks associated with cross-border transactions, including those described under the risk factor caption ""Any factors that reduce cross-border trade could harm our business,"" above; potentially higher incidence of fraud and corruption and higher credit and transaction loss risks; cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, trading or payments over the Internet or through mobile devices; laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses; difficulties in integrating with local payment providers, including banks, credit and debit card networks and electronic fund transfer systems; differing levels of retail distribution, shipping and Internet and mobile infrastructures; different employee/employer relationships and labor laws, and the existence of workers' councils and labor unions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; challenges associated with joint venture relationships and minority investments, including dependence on our joint venture partners; difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; longer payment cycles, different accounting practices and greater problems in collecting accounts receivable; potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation of our fees or of transactions on our websites; higher Internet service provider costs; differing intellectual property laws; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; seasonal reductions in business activity; expenses associated with localizing our products and services, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency and adapting our products and services to local preferences (e.g., payment methods) with which we may have limited or no experience; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; our ability to repatriate funds from abroad without adverse tax consequences; the possibility that foreign governments may impose currency controls or other restrictions on the repatriation of funds; volatility in a specific country's or region's political, economic or military conditions (e.g., in South Korea relating to its disputes with North Korea); challenges associated with maintaining relationships with local law enforcement and related agencies. Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we also could become subject to increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and repatriating money without adverse tax consequences, as well as increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations on our business is discussed in more detail under the caption “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates” above. Compliance with complex foreign and U.S. laws and regulations that apply to our international operations increases our cost of doing business. These numerous and sometimes conflicting laws and regulations include internal control and disclosure rules, data privacy and filtering requirements, anti-corruption laws, such as the Foreign Corrupt Practices Act, and other local laws prohibiting corrupt payments to governmental officials, and antitrust and competition regulations, among others. Violations of these laws and regulations could result in fines and penalties, criminal sanctions against us, our officers, or our employees, prohibitions on the conduct of our business and on our ability to offer our products and services in one or more countries, and could also materially affect our brands, our international expansion efforts, our ability to attract and retain employees, our business, and our operating results. Although we have implemented policies and procedures designed to ensure compliance with these laws and regulations, there can be no assurance that our employees, contractors, or agents will not violate our policies. In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product development, customer support and other operations, in regions outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which reduce the anticipated benefits associated with providing these functions outside of the U.S., including cost efficiencies and productivity improvements, could adversely affect our business. We maintain a portion of Shopping.com's research and development facilities and personnel in Israel, and have acquired other Israeli companies. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect those operations. Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed hostilities between Israel and neighboring countries or other entities could make it more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of employees due to military service, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a significant number of businesses, technologies, services and products, including most recently WHI Solutions, Inc. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions as part of our overall business strategy, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. These transactions involve significant challenges and risks. Some of the areas where we may face risks or difficulties include: the need to integrate the operations, systems (including accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems), technologies, products and personnel of each acquired company, which is itself an inherently risky process; the inefficiencies and lack of control that may result if such integration is delayed or not implemented; and unforeseen difficulties and expenditures that may arise in connection with integration; diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration, particularly given the number, size and varying scope of our recent acquisitions; declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; risks associated with our expansion into new international markets and doing business internationally, including those described under the risk factor caption ""There are many risks associated with our international operations"" above; difficulties in entering new markets where we have no or limited direct prior experience or where competitors may have stronger market positions; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; the potential loss of key customers, vendors and other business partners of the companies we acquire following and continuing after announcement of our acquisition plans; in some cases, the need to transition operations, users and customers onto our existing or new platforms; liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including intellectual property and other litigation claims or disputes, violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities; the acquisition of new customer and employee personal information, in and of itself, may require regulatory approval and or additional controls, policies and procedures and subject us to additional exposure; and for investments in which an investee's financial performance is incorporated into our financial results, either in full or in part, the dependence on the investee's accounting, financial reporting and similar systems, controls and processes. It may take us longer than expected to fully realize the anticipated benefits, such as increased revenue and enhanced efficiencies, of any or all of our acquisitions, and those benefits may ultimately be smaller than anticipated or may not be realized at all, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. Future acquisitions may also require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt (and increased interest expense), liabilities and amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. In addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Our strategic investments may expose us to additional risks. For example, GSI's minority interest in Intershop Communications AG is governed by German law, which could subject us to liability for certain disadvantages to Intershop if we were deemed to be in control of Intershop under German law. We have also been sued by craigslist, which has alleged that we improperly misused confidential information from craigslist that we received as a minority investor. The complaint alleges breach of contract, breach of fiduciary duty, fraud, unfair competition and false advertising and seeks compensatory and punitive damages, recission and other relief. Our acquisition of GSI Commerce, Inc. exposes us to additional risks. Our GSI business faces certain risks and challenges not shared by our other businesses, including those described under the risk factor captions ""If our GSI business is unable to enhance its platform and migrate clients to its new platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would be substantially harmed"" and ""Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business."" Competition for GSI's existing and potential clients is intense, and our GSI business may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. For example, a change in the management of a GSI client could adversely affect our relationship with that client. In addition, many of GSI's client contracts contain service level commitments. If our GSI business is unable to meet these commitments, its relationships with its clients could be damaged, and client rights to terminate their contracts with GSI and/or financial penalty provisions payable by GSI may be triggered. If any existing GSI clients were to exit the business we provide services to, be acquired, declare bankruptcy, suffer other financial difficulties, fail to pay amounts owed to GSI and/or terminate or modify their relationships with GSI in a manner unfavorable to us (in particular with respect to the large merchants and brands that GSI serves), our GSI business could be adversely affected. A portion of GSI's ecommerce services revenue is derived from the value of ecommerce transactions that flow through GSI's ecommerce services business. Accordingly, growth in GSI's ecommerce services revenue depends upon the continued growth of the online businesses of its clients. GSI's ecommerce services business may be substantially impacted by any adverse conditions in the offline businesses of a GSI client that negatively impact that client's online businesses. Any impairment of the offline business of GSI clients, whether due to financial difficulties, impairment of client brands, reduction in marketing efforts, reduction in the number of client retail stores or otherwise, could negatively affect consumer traffic and sales through GSI's clients' websites, which would result in lower revenues generated by our GSI business. Our GSI business also relies on its clients' ability to accurately forecast product demand and select and buy the inventory for their corresponding online businesses. Under such arrangements, the client establishes product prices and pays GSI service fees based either on a fixed or variable percentage of revenues, or on the activity performed. As a result, if GSI's clients fail to accurately forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, the client's ecommerce business (and, in turn, GSI's service fees) could be adversely affected. Our GSI business holds some inventory on behalf of its ecommerce services customers. If GSI is unable to effectively manage and handle this inventory, this may result in unexpected costs that could adversely affect our GSI business. Any theft of such inventory, or damage or interruption to such inventory, including as a result of earthquakes, floods, fire, power loss, labor disputes, terrorist attacks and similar events and disruptions, could result in losses related to such inventory and disruptions to GSI's customers' businesses, which could in turn adversely affect our GSI business. Our GSI business processes personal information on behalf of its ecommerce services clients. The personal information of customers of certain websites operated by GSI's clients may be regulated under the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, the Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act, the Children's Online Privacy Protection Act, or other privacy laws and regulations. In some cases, GSI's use or disclosure of that information may be restricted by contractual terms, laws and regulations, and any misuse or unpermitted disclosure of that information could negatively impact GSI and its clients. GSI's interactive marketing services business relies on email marketing to drive consumer traffic to the websites operated by its clients. Email could become a less effective means of communicating with and marketing to consumers for a variety of reasons, including: problems with technology that make GSI's email communications more difficult to deliver and for consumers to read (e.g., the inability of smart phones or similar communication devices to adequately display email); consumers may disregard marketing emails due to the large volume of such emails they receive; the inability of filters to effectively screen for unwanted emails, resulting in increased levels of junk mail, or “SPAM,” which may overwhelm consumer's email accounts; increased use of social networking sites, which may result in decreased use of email as a primary means of communication; continued security concerns regarding Internet usage in general from viruses, worms or similar problems; and increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by Internet service providers that make it more difficult or costly to utilize email for marketing communications. If any of our GSI entities were to end up on SPAM lists or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited emails, their ability to contact customers through email could be significantly restricted. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the demand for GSI's email marketing solutions could decrease and our GSI business could be harmed. GSI's interactive marketing services business also utilizes mobile messaging as a means of communicating with consumers, which carries risks similar to the risks described above for email marketing. Our GSI business has relationships with search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers, online advertising networks and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links to its clients' ecommerce businesses. Our GSI business relies on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to clients' ecommerce businesses. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. Immediately following our acquisition of GSI, eBay sold 100% of GSI's sports merchandise business and 70% of its RueLaLa and ShopRunner businesses (which we refer to collectively as the divested entities), to Kynetic LLC, which we refer to as Kynetic. Kynetic is primarily owned by GSI's former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Rubin. Each of the divested entities was a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of GSI Commerce. In connection with (and as a result of) the divestiture to Kynetic, our GSI business maintains certain commercial and financial relationships with the divested entities which expose it to certain risks of the businesses of Kynetic and the divested entities. As part of the Kynetic divestiture, we loaned Kynetic and the divested entities $467 million, which is secured by certain assets of the divested entities. Kynetic and the divested entities' ability to repay this obligation is dependent on the financial performance of Kynetic and the divested entities. If Kynetic is unable to repay this obligation, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Finally, our GSI business is also party to certain acquisition agreements relating to entities purchased by GSI prior to our acquisition, and which relate to businesses owned by the divested entities. Kynetic has agreed to indemnify GSI for certain liabilities incurred by GSI under these acquisition agreements. If such liabilities were realized and Kynetic was not able or willing to meet its indemnification obligations, GSI would be liable for them and its business could be harmed. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of ecommerce. For example, the State of New York has passed legislation that requires any out-of-state seller of tangible personal property to collect and remit New York use tax if the seller engages affiliates above certain financial thresholds in New York to perform certain business promotion activities. Several ecommerce companies are challenging this new law. In June 2011, California enacted legislation that required certain out-of-state retailers to collect and remit California use tax on taxable sales to California purchasers when the retailer has a relationship with a person in California that refers customers to the retailer. In September 2011, the California Governor signed into law AB 155, which superseded the prior law and delayed the implementation of such collection and remittance requirements until September 15, 2012 or January 1, 2013. The effective date of the law was dependent on whether or not the U.S. Congress enacted legislation in this area by July 1, 2012. Because federal legislation has not been enacted, the effective date of California's new law will be September 15, 2012. The new law is similar to the law passed in New York, but provides exclusions for certain forms of Internet marketing and is limited to retailers who exceed prescribed sales volume thresholds. However, if our sellers who are not already required to collect California sales or use tax believe that their use of our websites requires them to collect California use tax, they may elect to limit their use of our websites rather than collect the tax, which would harm our business. North Carolina, Rhode Island, Illinois, Arkansas and South Dakota have also enacted similar laws related to affiliates, and a number of other states appear to be considering similar legislation. In addition, the Pennsylvania Department of Revenue has ruled that an out-of-state retailer using Pennsylvania-based affiliates could have nexus in Pennsylvania under existing statutes. Most of these new laws and positions are being challenged and in May 2012, a Cook County Circuit Court judge ruled that the Illinois Internet Affiliate Nexus Law was unconstitutional. The State of Illinois has filed a direct appeal to the Illinois Supreme Court. The adoption of such legislation by states where eBay has significant operations that perform certain business promotion activities could result in a use tax collection responsibility for certain of our sellers. This collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements would make selling on our websites less attractive for small business retailers, and would harm our business. The State of Colorado has enacted legislation that takes a different approach by imposing a set of use tax notice and reporting requirements (but not the actual tax collection responsibility) on certain retailers with no physical presence in Colorado. The law is designed to aid Colorado in collecting use tax from Colorado residents who purchase taxable items from out-of-state retailers. The regulation promulgated by the Colorado Department of Revenue excludes from these reporting obligations businesses that sell $100,000 or less into the state in a calendar year, thus limiting the impact on our sellers. The law has been challenged in Federal Court by a number of out-of-state retailers and a Federal District Court has issued an injunction blocking enforcement of the regulations pending a resolution of the case. In March 2012, a federal judge struck down the Colorado law as unconstitutional finding that it discriminated against interstate commerce. It is expected that the State will appeal the decision. Oklahoma has enacted a similar law. While the recent laws in California, New York, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Illinois, Arkansas, South Dakota, Oklahoma and Colorado do not specifically apply to our Marketplaces business, the proliferation of such state legislation, to expand sales and use tax collection on Internet sales, could adversely affect some of our sellers and indirectly harm our business. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project - an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state, and local governments to require collection and remittance of remote sales tax by out-of-state sellers - S. 1452 and H.R. 2701, U.S. Senate and U.S. House versions of the Main Street Fairness Act, have been introduced in the 112th Congress. These measures would allow states that meet certain simplification and other standards to require out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. Sellers meeting an as yet undefined small seller exception would be excluded from the requirements of the Act. Other legislation introduced in the US Congress, including H.R. 3179 and S. 1832, would grant states the authority to require out-of-state retailers to collect and remit sales taxes without requiring the state to join the Streamlined Sales Tax Project. The adoption of remote sales tax collection legislation that lacks a robust small business exemption would result in the imposition of sales taxes and additional costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on a number of our sellers. This would make selling online less attractive for small retailers, and could harm our business. From time to time, some taxing authorities have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes. In May 2008, the City of Chicago notified both eBay and StubHub that they are liable for a city amusement tax on tickets to events in Chicago, irrespective of the location of the buyer or seller, and filed suit to enforce collection of taxes it claims are due. In March 2009, the court ruled that StubHub is not required to collect and remit the city amusement tax. The City of Chicago requested reconsideration of this ruling and StubHub sought clarification of the ruling relative to the remaining counts as well. In August 2009, the court entered a final order dismissing the case against StubHub. In December 2009, the court also dismissed the case against eBay. The City of Chicago appealed both matters to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The Seventh Circuit has issued an opinion in the StubHub matter rejecting the federal arguments advanced by StubHub and certifying the state law arguments to the Illinois State Supreme Court. In October 2011, the Illinois Supreme Court ruled that state municipalities may not require electronic intermediaries such as StubHub to collect and remit amusement taxes on resold tickets. The City of Chicago has requested a rehearing before the Illinois Supreme Court and the court has not yet ruled on that request. The application of similar existing or future laws could adversely affect our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. The U.S. federal government's moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce has been extended through November 2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. Similar issues exist outside of the U.S., where the application of VAT or other indirect taxes on ecommerce providers such as eBay is uncertain and evolving. While we attempt to comply in those jurisdictions where it is clear that a tax is due, certain of our subsidiaries have, from time to time, received claims relating to the applicability of indirect taxes to our fees.  In April 2012, we received Notices of Reassessments for tax years 2001-2005 from the Canadian Revenue Agency (“CRA”) which assert goods and service tax (GST) and harmonized sales tax (HST) on our fees charged to Canadian users. These reassessments of GST/HST were the result of an audit of eBay International AG and are based on the CRA's assertion that we were “doing business” in Canada for GST/HST purposes. We disagree with the reassessments and filed a Notice of Appeal with the Tax Court of Canada in July 2012. Should such taxes become applicable, our business could be harmed. We collect and remit indirect taxes in certain jurisdictions. However, tax authorities may raise questions about our obligation to collect and remit such taxes, as well as the proper calculation of such taxes. For example, the Korean tax authority asserted that certain coupons and incentives available on our sites should not be deducted when computing taxes on our fees. We challenged these assessments and in June 2012 the National Tax Tribunal issued a final ruling in our favor. Should any new taxes become applicable to our fees or if the taxes we pay are found to be deficient, our business could be harmed. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. One or more states or the federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been contemplated by several states and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if an eBay company was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which eBay operates. In July 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221) was signed into law. This law contains provisions that require companies that provide payments over electronic means to users to report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) information on payments received by certain customers. The legislation, effective for payments received after December 31, 2010, requires PayPal and other electronic payments processors, as well as StubHub and similar companies, to report to the IRS on customers subject to U.S. income tax who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a calendar year, to request tax ID numbers from U.S. taxpayers, track payments by tax ID number and withhold a proportion of payments and forward such withholding to the IRS if customers who receive more than 200 payments do not provide correct and complete information. We have had to modify our software to meet these requirements and expect increased operational costs and changes to our user experience in connection with complying with these reporting obligations. The IRS regulations also require us to collect a certification of non-U.S. taxpayer status from certain international merchants. These requirements may decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. Any failure by us to meet these new requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. One or more other jurisdictions may also seek to impose tax collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Imposition of a discriminatory record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Foreign authorities may also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from, or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify eBay's obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting requirements could harm our users and our business. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which eBay conducts or will conduct business. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have laws and regulations covering the resale of event tickets. Some jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices above the face value of the tickets or at all, or highly regulate the resale of tickets, and new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions may be adopted that could limit or inhibit our ability to operate, or our users' ability to continue to use, our tickets business. For example, in 2012, France passed a law prohibiting the habitual resale of event tickets without permission from the event organizer. In addition, the unauthorized resale of football (soccer) tickets is illegal in the U.K., where a StubHub site was recently launched. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions. In October 2007, two plaintiffs filed a purported class action lawsuit in North Carolina Superior Court alleging that StubHub sold (and facilitated and participated in the sale) of concert tickets to plaintiffs with the knowledge that the tickets were resold in violation of North Carolina's maximum ticket resale price law (which has been subsequently amended). In February 2011, the trial court granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment, concluding that immunity under the Communications Decency Act did not apply. The trial court further held that StubHub violated the North Carolina unfair and deceptive trade practices statute as it pertained to the two named plaintiffs, and certified its decision for immediate appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals. In February 2012, the North Carolina Court of Appeals overturned the lower court's decision. The plaintiffs are appealing the appellate court ruling. Some event organizers and professional sports teams have expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our sites. Suits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such litigation could result in damage awards, could require us to change our business practices in ways that may be harmful to our business, or could otherwise negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. The economic downturn resulted in a decrease in ticket prices sold on our sites and negatively impacted revenue and profits. In addition, a work stoppage, strike or lockout by a professional sports league (for example, the recent National Basketball Association lockout) that results in the cancellation of all or a portion of the games in a league's season would harm our tickets business. In addition, a portion of the tickets inventory sold by sellers on the StubHub website is processed by StubHub in digital form. Systems failures, security breaches, theft or other disruptions that result in the loss of such sellers' tickets inventory could materially harm our tickets business. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies (such as Live Nation Entertainment/Ticketmaster, AEG, Comcast-Spectacor and Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports teams and leagues), ticket brokers and online and offline ticket resellers, such as TicketsNow (which is owned by Live Nation Entertainment) and RazorGator. In addition, some ticketing service companies and event organizers have begun to issue event tickets through various forms of electronic ticketing systems that are designed to restrict or prohibit the transferability (and by extension, the resale) of such event tickets. Ticketing service companies have also begun to use market-based pricing strategies or dynamic pricing to charge much higher prices than they historically have for premium tickets. Besides charging higher prices, these ticketing service companies have also imposed additional restrictions on transferability for these types of tickets, such as requiring customers to pick up these tickets at will-call with the purchasing credit card. To the extent that event tickets issued in this manner cannot be resold on our websites, or to the extent that we are otherwise unable to compete with these competitors, our tickets business would be harmed. Pursuant to commercial arrangements with certain of its partners, StubHub provides some of its sellers with the ability to conduct integrated resale transactions, which consumers may prefer due to, among other factors, much quicker delivery and lower fraud concerns. These integrations are largely deal-dependent, and these arrangements may not be renewed on favorable terms, or at all. We depend on key personnel. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel and our ability to retain and motivate them. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel and do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies, and some members of our senior management team have fully vested the vast majority of their in-the-money equity incentives. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our businesses all depend on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our users could harm our business. A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our users list items, caching services that make our sites load faster and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial interest in their success, while in other cases we have none. PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that link PayPal to the payment card and bank clearing networks. Similarly, Bill Me Later relies on an unaffiliated lender in providing the Bill Me Later service and also relies heavily on third parties to operate its services, including merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes or work stoppages) or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our users could reduce the number of listings on our websites or make completing transactions or payments on our websites more difficult, thereby harming our business. Price increases by, or service terminations, disruptions or interruptions at, companies that provide services to our users and clients (such as postal and delivery services, and our recently announced plans for a global shipping solution intended to facilitate cross-border transactions between buyers and sellers) could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our sellers to complete transactions or for us to timely fulfill and ship products sold on the websites operated by GSI's clients, thereby harming our business. Some third-parties who provide services to us may have or gain market power and be able to increase their prices to us without competitive constraint. In addition, the U.S. Postal Service has announced that it is considering closing thousands of local post offices and ending Saturday mail delivery. While we continue to work with global carriers to offer our sellers a variety of shipping options and to enhance our shipping experience, these closures could require certain sellers to utilize alternatives which could be more expensive or inconvenient, which could in turn decrease the velocity of trade on our site, thereby harming our business. Any security breach at a company providing services to our users could also adversely affect our customers and harm our business. We have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including some customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our velocity of trade, business, reputation and operating results Although we generally have been able to renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with, or if necessary replace, third parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy due to poor economic conditions, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to our users will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Measures that we sometimes take to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our sites by making our sites more difficult to use or restricting the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant personnel expense, and if not managed properly, this expense could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage or train our own or outsourced customer support representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. Negative publicity about, or negative experiences with, customer support for any of our businesses could cause our reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in our brands individually or as a whole. Because PayPal is providing a financial service and operating in a more regulated environment, PayPal must provide both telephone and email customer support and resolve certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of PayPal's program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering, PayPal may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer's account activity are identified by PayPal's risk models as suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity with respect to its customer support and account restrictions, and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things, failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. PayPal, Inc.; and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) were filed in the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations that PayPal improperly held users' funds or otherwise improperly limited user's accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal's practices among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to PayPal's practices could expose PayPal to significant liability. Any changes to PayPal's practices resulting from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend product resources, which could delay other planned product launches or improvements and further harm our business. If PayPal is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, PayPal's users may have negative experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged and it could become subject to additional litigation. As a result, current and future revenues could suffer, losses could be incurred and its operating margins may decrease. Our industries are intensely competitive. Marketplaces Our Marketplaces businesses currently or potentially compete with a large number of online and offline companies providing particular categories of goods and/or broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the future. The barriers to entry into these channels can be relatively low, and current offline and new competitors, including small businesses who want to create and promote their own stores, can easily launch online sites at nominal cost using commercially available software or partnering with any one of a number of successful ecommerce companies. Online and offline businesses increasingly are competing with each other, consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through our Marketplaces businesses have more and more alternatives, and merchants have more channels to reach consumers. Our competitors include the vast majority of traditional department, warehouse, boutique, discount and general merchandise stores (as well as the online operations of these traditional retailers), online retailers, online classified services and other shopping channels such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the U.S., these include Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy's, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam's Club, Amazon.com (which continues to expand into new geographies and lines of business), Buy.com (owned by Rakuten), AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC and Home Shopping Network, among others. A number of companies offer a variety of services that provide channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites such as craigslist (in which we own a minority equity stake), Google Merchant Center, Oodle.com and a number of international websites operated by Schibsted ASA. In certain markets, our fixed-price listing and traditional auction-style listing formats are increasingly being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. Our classifieds websites, including Den Blå Avis, BilBasen, eBay Classifieds (including eBay Anuncios, eBay Kleinanzeigen and eBay Annunci), Gumtree, Kijiji, LoQUo, Marktplaats.nl, mobile.de and Alamaula, offer classifieds listings in the U.S. and a variety of local international markets. In many markets in which they operate, including in the U.S., our classified platforms compete against more established online and offline classifieds platforms. Our online shopping comparison site, Shopping.com, competes with sites such as Bing Shopping, Buy.com, Google Product Search/Google Shopping, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. Recent legal developments may affect the utility of shopping comparison sites if manufacturers limit variation in product pricing. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on horizontal search engine sites such as Bing, Google, Yahoo!, Naver and Baidu. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to help users find our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. Consumers may choose to search for products and services with a horizontal search engine instead of our sites, and horizontal search engines may send users to other shopping destinations instead of our sites. We also compete with many local, regional, and national specialty retailers and exchanges in each of the major categories of products offered on our site. For example, category-specific competitors to offerings in our Motors (Parts and Accessories) category include: Advanceautoparts.com, Auto Parts Warehouse, AutoAnything, Autozone, Car Domain, Discount Tire Direct, jcwhitney.com, Motorcycle Superstore, O'Reilly Auto Parts, Rockauto.com, Tirerack.com, newspaper and online classifieds, used car dealers, swap meets, car clubs and vehicle recyclers Our international Marketplaces websites compete with similar online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online ecommerce sites such as: Amazon, Rakuten.de, Quelle and Otto in Germany; Leboncoin.fr and PriceMinister (owned by Rakuten) in France; Taobao in China; Tradus (owned by Naspers) in Poland; Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan; Lotte, Naver and 11th Street in South Korea; Trading Post, OZtion and Aussie Bidder in Australia; and Amazon and Play.com (owned by Rakuten) in the United Kingdom and other countries. In some of these countries, there are online sites that have much larger customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do, as well as competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce than we do. As our businesses in developing countries grow, we increasingly may compete with domestic competitors which have advantages we do not possess, such as a greater ability to operate under local regulatory authorities. The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online competition, additional competitive factors include: community cohesion, interaction and size; website ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment level of service fees; and quality of search tools. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online ecommerce sites may be acquired by, receive investments from, or enter into other commercial relationships with well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. Some of our competitors may offer or continue to offer free shipping, favorable return policies or other transaction-related services which improve the user experience on their sites and which could be impractical or inefficient for eBay sellers to match. Our competitors may be able to innovate faster than we can, and new technologies may further increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. Our competitors may be able to use the advantages of brick-and-mortar stores or other sorts of physical presence. In addition, certain established retailers may encourage manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their products to dealers who sell through online channels such as eBay. Retailers may attempt to use existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods or services. Manufacturers may attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance or minimum advertised price arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our websites or on the Internet generally, or at prices that would make our site attractive relative to other alternatives. For example, in June 2012, Adidas Group announced that it intends to restrict its dealers, on a global basis, from listing and selling Adidas and Reebok products on sites including eBay.com. The adoption by manufacturers of policies, or the adoption of new laws or regulations or interpretations of existing laws or regulations by government authorities, in each case discouraging or restricting the sales of goods or services over the Internet, could force eBay users to stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased competition or anti-Internet distribution policies or regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brands. As we respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among some of our sellers, which could reduce activity on our websites and harm our profitability. Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with several large online services and search engine companies, these arrangements may not be renewed on favorable terms or these companies may decide to promote competitive services. Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in increased usage of our sites. In addition, companies that control user access to transactions through network access, Internet browsers, mobile networks or search engines could promote our competitors, channel current or potential users to their vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their advertisers' sites, attempt to restrict access to our sites, or charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Search engines are increasingly becoming a starting point for online shopping, and as the costs of operating an online store continue to decline, online sellers may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers conduct through our sites. PayPal The markets for PayPal's products and services are intensely competitive and are subject to rapid technological change, including but not limited to: mobile payments, electronic funds transfer networks allowing Internet access, cross-border access to networks, creation of new networks, expansion of prepaid cards and bill pay networks. PayPal faces competition and potential competition from existing online and offline payment methods, including, among others: payment card processors that offer their services to online merchants and multi-channel merchants, including American Express, Chase Paymentech, First Data, Wells Fargo, WorldPay, Barclays Merchant Services, Global Payments, Inc., Square and Stripe, and payment gateways, including CyberSource and Authorize.net (both owned by Visa), Braintree and First Data; money remitters such as MoneyGram, Western Union, Global Payments, Inc. and Euronet; bill payment services, including CheckFree, a subsidiary of Fiserv; processors that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit, including ClearXchange (a joint venture among Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JP Morgan Chase), Western Union's WU Pay, Dwolla, Acculynk, TeleCheck (a subsidiary of First Data), iDEAL in the Netherlands, Sofortuberweisung in Germany and the recently-announced MyBank pan-European initiative; providers of “digital wallet” services that offer customers the ability to pay online or on mobile devices through a variety of payment methods, including the new V.me announced by Visa, American Express's Serve and Google Wallet; providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit cards, checks, money orders and Automated Clearing House transactions; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including VisaBuxx, NetSpend, Green Dot, PayNearMe and UKash; mobile payments, including ISIS, Buyster, Mpass, O2 Money, Project Oscar, Boku, Venmo and Crandy, many of which are owned by or supported by major mobile carriers; Amazon Payments, which offers merchants the ability to accept credit card- and bank-funded payments from Amazon's base of online and mobile customers on the merchant's own website; Google Checkout, which has been integrated into the Google Wallet service and which enables the online and mobile payment of merchants using credit cards; AliPay, an online payment services provider which operates primarily in China but has announced plans to expand internationally; Other providers of online account-based payments, such as Skrill (formerly known as MoneyBookers), ClickandBuy (owned by Deutsche Telekom), Barclays Pingit and Kwixo (primarily in the EU), Paymate and Visa PayClick in Australia; payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including PlaySpan (which Visa has acquired) and Boku; payment services enabling banks to offer their online banking customers the ability to send and receive payments through their bank account, including ZashPay from Fiserv and Popmoney from CashEdge, both of which have announced collaboration agreements with Visa (CashEdge has been acquired by Fiserv); and online shopping services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider, such as Visa's RightCliq, MasterCard MarketPlace, TrialPay and Tapjoy Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater brand recognition, or a larger base of customers than PayPal, and may be also be able to leverage other affiliated businesses for competitive advantage. PayPal's competitors may be able to innovate and respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, counter-terrorist financing and other regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to additional regulations based on, among other factors, its licensure as a bank in Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google Checkout (now integrated into Google Wallet) has in the past offered free payments processing on transactions in an amount proportionate to certain advertising spending with Google. Competing services tied to established banks and other financial institutions may offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal. In addition, in certain countries, such as Germany, Netherlands and Australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online and offline transactions. As in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and easily develop such a service. The principal competitive factors for PayPal include the following: ability to attract, retain and engage both buyers and sellers with relatively low marketing expense; ability to show that sellers will achieve incremental sales by offering PayPal; security of transactions and the ability for buyers to use PayPal without sharing their financial information with the seller; low fees and simplicity of fee structure; ability to develop services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the physical point of sale; trust in PayPal's dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; and brand recognition With respect to our online competition, additional competitive factors include: website and onboarding ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; data security; and quality of developer tools such as our Application Programming Interfaces and Software Development Kits. Some of PayPal's competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First Data, American Express and Royal Bank of Scotland, also provide processing or foreign exchange services to PayPal. If PayPal were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers, either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition, these processing and foreign exchange relationships could be negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services. GSI Our GSI business segment has two main businesses: ecommerce services and interactive marketing services. Ecommerce Services The market for the development and operation of ecommerce services that enable companies to operate ecommerce businesses and integrate their ecommerce businesses into their multichannel retail offerings is continuously evolving and intensely competitive. In our ecommerce services business, we face competition from in-house ecommerce solutions, technology and service providers which supply one or more components of an ecommerce solution, and other providers of integrated ecommerce solutions. Many of our prospective ecommerce services clients evaluate managing all or some aspects of an ecommerce operation with internal resources. As a result, we often compete with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal information technology staffs, merchandising groups, and other internal corporate constituencies as well as with technology and service providers that supply one or more components of an ecommerce solution that allow prospective clients to develop and operate their ecommerce business in-house. This group of providers may include the prospective client itself and companies that offer: Web platforms (e.g., Art Technology Group (which is owned by Oracle), IBM, Demandware and Microsoft); customer care/call center services (e.g., West Communications, Sykes Enterprises, and Convergys); fulfillment and logistics (e.g., PFS Web, Innotrac, DHL, and UPS); and systems integrators and technology providers (e.g., Accenture, EDS, Sapient, Infosys, Oracle and IBM). We believe that we compete with ecommerce services competitors primarily on the basis of the following: offering the choice of a complete integrated solution or a component-based solution; promoting the client's brand and business, rather than our own; providing scale and operating leverage with an enterprise focus; establishing a commitment to invest in and enhance our platform; and aligning our financial interests with those of our clients. Interactive Marketing Services The market for interactive marketing services is continuously evolving and intensely competitive. In our interactive marketing services business, we face competition from other providers of interactive marketing services, other providers of traditional marketing services and in-house marketing departments, as our prospective interactive marketing services clients evaluate managing their marketing services with internal resources as well as through interactive marketing agencies. As a result, we often compete with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal marketing departments as well as with service providers that supply one or more interactive marketing services. This group of providers may include the prospective client itself and companies that offer: email management and data aggregation (e.g., Experian, Harte-Hanks and Epsilon); online marketing and design services (digital marketing services agencies such as Omnicom Group, WPP Group, Publicis and the Interpublic Group of Companies); and other interactive marketing services (e.g., Google, LinkShare (owned by Rakuten), TradeDoubler, and ValueClick). Low barriers to entry in the interactive marketing industry could also increase the number of competitors our interactive marketing services business may face. We believe that we compete with interactive marketing services competitors primarily on the basis of the following: offering digital marketing solutions that are integrated with our ecommerce services platform, which we believe provides a more strategic, cohesive and optimized approach to growing ecommerce businesses; and providing services that utilize proprietary technology to promote stronger customer engagement designed to increase clients' return on investment. Our ecommerce services and interactive marketing services businesses have competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources. Those competitors may be able to secure components of their technology and services on more favorable terms and devote more resources to technology development and marketing than our ecommerce services and interactive marketing services business. In addition, as we expand our ecommerce services and interactive marketing services businesses internationally, we will face increased competition from local companies which may have a greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. We receive scrutiny from various government agencies under U.S. and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S., individual states, the European Commission, or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Contractual agreements with buyers, sellers, or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Also, our unilateral business practices could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Some regulators, particularly those outside of the U.S., may perceive our business to have so much market power that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. For example, in the U.S., we have been sued by a plaintiff representing a putative class of sellers who alleges that we have illegally monopolized a market for online auctions. In Korea, the national competition authority has investigated allegations that we have engaged in illegal exclusive conduct and rendered a decision against us in October 2010. The main case was conclusively resolved in our favor, and a related administrative action is on appeal. A further investigation was concluded by the Seoul prosecutor's office, which chose not to bring any charges. The competition authorities in Germany and Australia have conducted investigations (now completed) of various actions taken by our businesses. Such claims and investigations, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in significant judgments against us. In several jurisdictions, we have taken actions designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites. Beginning in June 2008, we have required users in the U.K. to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized U.K. website, and since October 2008, we have required sellers on eBay.com to accept one or more accepted payment methods (currently PayPal, credit or debit cards processed through Internet merchant accounts, ProPay, Skrill (formerly known as Moneybookers) and Paymate) and no longer allow any forms of paper payment, including checks and money orders, to be listed by sellers in the U.S. for most categories of items. While these initiatives are intended to improve and make safer our users' buying experience and/or increase activity on our sites, certain users may be negatively affected by or react negatively to these changes, and may allege that we have (and are abusing) market power. We have faced inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to such actions. For example, in 2008, both the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. We may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. Negative reactions to these changes by our users or government authorities could, among other things, force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business, operating results and profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites or mobile applications, including seasonal factors, national events and increased usage of other websites. Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites or mobile applications could adversely affect our business. We would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly, our results of operations historically have experienced seasonal fluctuations because many of our users reduce their activities on our websites with the onset of good weather during the summer months, and on and around national holidays. In particular, our GSI business is highly seasonal, with the fourth quarter holiday season accounting for a disproportionate amount of GSI's net revenues due to consumers increasing their purchases and businesses increasing their advertising to consumers during that period, and any factors that limit or dampen consumer spending during the fourth quarter holiday season could harm our GSI business. In addition, increased usage of social networking or other entertainment websites or mobile applications may decrease the amount of time users spend on our websites or mobile applications, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of our business could harm us. We have expanded significantly our headcount, facilities and infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that further expansion in certain areas will be required for some of our businesses. We are also increasing our product and service offerings across our businesses. This expansion has increased (and we expect will continue to increase), the complexity of our businesses and has placed (and we expect will continue to place) a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. The areas that are put under strain by our growth include the following: Customer Account Billing. Our revenues depend on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed on our and our subsidiaries' websites would harm our business and our ability to collect revenue. Customer Service. We continue to focus on providing better and more efficient customer support to our users. We intend to provide an increased level of support (including an increasing amount of telephone support) in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to provide customer support in a cost-effective manner, users of our websites may have negative experiences, current and future revenues could suffer, our costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We must continue to effectively hire, train and manage new employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing and integrating new employees, or if we are unsuccessful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. To effectively manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to continue to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures and controls. This is a special challenge as we acquire new operations with different and incompatible systems. Any capital investments that we may make will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in the short term. Failure to implement these improvements could limit our ability to manage our growth and adversely affect our operating results. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment, and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our tax structure. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient in the event that any taxing authority is successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our positions. In addition, the economic downturn reduced tax revenues for U.S. federal and state governments, and a number of proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities are being considered at various levels of government. Among the options have been a range of proposals included in the tax and budget policies recommended to the U.S. Congress by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to modify the federal tax rules related to the imposition of U.S. federal corporate income taxes for companies operating in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. If such proposals are enacted into law, this could increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S. states have likewise attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas to increase the amount of taxable income/loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of these state efforts. If more states are successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that do not have a physical presence in the state, this could increase our effective tax rate. Our integrated X.commerce platform, which is open to third-party developers, subjects us to additional risks. In 2009, we launched the PayPal Developer Platform to enable third-party developers to access a wide variety of PayPal product and programming code specifications and to connect to select PayPal payment application programming interfaces (APIs). We also began providing a software tool kit for building mobile payments applications, and enabling third-party developers to access certain APIs with respect to our Marketplaces platforms. In June 2011, we launched X.commerce, our integrated open commerce platform initiative, which includes our eBay Developer Program, the PayPal Developer Network and Magento, which provides open source ecommerce platforms and which we acquired in August 2011. There can be no assurance that merchants and third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open commerce platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. In addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions, which may be contravened by such third party applications. If this were to occur, we could be liable for the regulatory failure and our business could be adversely affected. There are risks associated with our indebtedness. At June 30, 2012, we had approximately $12 million in secured indebtedness outstanding, $550 million of senior unsecured indebtedness outstanding under our $2.0 billion commercial paper program, and approximately $1.5 billion of other senior unsecured indebtedness outstanding. We also have a $3.0 billion revolving credit facility, under which we maintain $2.0 billion of available borrowing capacity in order to repay commercial paper borrowings in the event we are unable to repay those borrowings from other sources when they come due. As of June 30, 2012, no borrowings or letters of credit were outstanding under this revolving credit facility and, accordingly, $1.0 billion of borrowing capacity was available for other purposes permitted by this credit facility. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including under our commercial paper program and revolving credit facility or through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have important consequences, including, without limitation, the following: we will be required to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures, acquisitions, share repurchases and other general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated results of operations and financial condition, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: repatriate funds at substantial tax cost; seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or reduce or delay planned operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. We depend on the continued growth of online and mobile commerce. The business of selling goods over the Internet and mobile networks, particularly through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns about fraud, privacy and other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting the Internet or mobile devices as modes of commerce, or may prompt consumers to offline channels. In countries such as the U.S., Germany, Korea and the U.K., where our services and online commerce generally have been available for some time and the level of market penetration of our services is high, acquiring new users for our services may be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. Moreover, the growth rates of Internet users is slowing in many countries where we have a significant presence. In order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods and may prefer Internet analogues to such traditional retail means, such as the retailer's own website, to our offerings. If these consumers prove to be less active than our earlier users due to lower levels of willingness to use the Internet or mobile devices for commerce for any reason, including lack of access to high-speed communications equipment, congestion of traffic on the Internet, Internet or mobile network outages or delays, disruptions or other damage to users' computers or mobile devices, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely impacted. Our businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet, as well as access to mobile networks. Internet service providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge us or our users additional fees for our offerings, which could harm our business. Our customers rely on access to the Internet or mobile networks to use our products and services. In many cases, that access is provided by companies that compete with at least some of our offerings, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies and large Internet service providers. Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of customers' use of our offerings by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. Mobile operators or operating system providers could block or place onerous restrictions on our ability to offer our mobile applications in their mobile application stores. Internet service providers or mobile networks could attempt to charge us each time our customers use our offerings. Worldwide, a number of companies have announced plans to take such actions or are selling products designed to facilitate such actions. The United States Federal Communications Commission enacted rules in December 2010 (Preserving the Open Internet Broadband Industry Practices [FCC-10-201] ) establishing baseline restrictions that would regulate the ability of Internet access companies to interfere with Internet traffic transported over wired and wireless networks. These FCC rules are expected to be reviewed by the Federal courts in 2012. Pending greater regulatory and judicial clarity, any interference with our offerings or higher charges for access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers, could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers and harm our revenue and growth. Our business depends on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our services will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” malware and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have been the targets of such programs. From time to time, the Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure. Any such outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services, which could adversely impact our business. We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay and PayPal names), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent third parties from infringing or misappropriating our technology or deter independent development of equivalent or superior technologies or other intellectual property rights by others. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Additionally, we have filed U.S. and international patent applications covering certain aspects of our proprietary technology. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including land and buildings related to our operations. We have little experience in managing real property. Ownership of this property subjects us to a number of additional risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; disruptions to our operations resulting from possible natural disasters, interruptions in utilities and similar events; adverse changes in the value of these properties due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; and possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or take control of our board of directors. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors through our annual meeting of stockholders in 2015, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined by Delaware law) for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control.",0.998787776191,0.842890809112
26,1065088, EBAY , 2011-07-22 ,2011,2," Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition Our operations and financial results are subject to various risks and uncertainties that could adversely affect our business, financial condition, results of operations, cash flows, as well as the trading price of our common stock. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include the following: general economic conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged period of limited economic growth in the U.S. and Europe; disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the U.S., Europe and elsewhere; adverse effects of the ongoing sovereign debt crisis in Europe; the impact of a failure to increase the debt ceiling in the U.S.; contractions or limited growth in consumer spending or consumer credit; and adverse economic conditions that may be specific to the Internet, ecommerce and payments industries; our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users, and encourage existing users to list items for sale, purchase items through our websites, or use our payment services, especially when consumer spending is weak; the primary and secondary effects of previously announced and possible future changes to our pricing, products and policies, including, among other changes, restrictions or holds on payments made to sellers or in connection with certain categories of higher-risk transactions; changes to performance standards and/or rewards for sellers, including taking into account cases filed through the eBay and PayPal buyer protection programs in evaluating individual seller performance ratings; changes to our dispute resolution process; upgrades to eBay checkout services, including the introduction of a new eBay shopping cart that enables buyers to add items from multiple sellers and pay in a single checkout and, effective July 2011, the discontinuation of support for third party checkout services; and recent changes to our fee structure, including the calculation of final value fees based on the total amount of the transaction (including shipping); consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions using our websites or technology and the effect of any changes in our practices and policies designed to foster improved confidence; our ability to meet existing and new regulatory requirements as we expand the range and geographical scope of our services and as we grow larger, especially for our Payments business; our ability to manage the costs of and effectively implement our user protection programs; the volume, velocity, size, timing, monetization, and completion rates of transactions using our websites or technology; regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our businesses or our users, including the injunction related to certain cosmetic and perfume brands (see “Item 1 - Legal Proceedings” above); our ability to improve the quality of the user experience on our websites and through mobile devices (including our customer support in the event of a problem) in light of the improved quality generally of the user experience offered by competitive Internet merchants; our ability to reduce the loss of active buyers and sellers and increase activity of the users of our Marketplaces business, especially with respect to our top buyers and sellers; changes to our use of advertising on our sites, including changes in ad placement; the impact on PayPal or Bill Me Later of regulations enacted pursuant to new laws regulating financial institutions, including the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act in the U.S.; other new laws or regulations, or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, that impose liability on us for actions of our users or otherwise harm our business models or restrict the Internet, ecommerce, online payments or online advertising; the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of new sites, services, products and functionality; the costs and results of litigation that involves us; our ability to develop product enhancements, programs, and features on different platforms (e.g., mobile devices and availability of PayPal at the retail point of sale) at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner; our ability to upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure, and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to improve our websites at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7 operations; technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our websites or services provided to us or our users by third parties; our ability to manage the transaction loss rate in our Marketplaces and Payments business; our ability to manage funding costs, credit risk and interest-rate risk associated with our Bill Me Later business; our ability to successfully and cost-effectively integrate and manage businesses that we acquire, including GSI, and the merger of our marketplaces in Korea following our recent receipt of regulatory approval to combine IAC and Gmarket; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure; our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose services are required for our operations, such as payment card networks and banks; the cost and availability of online and traditional advertising, and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective manner and to retain key employees; the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and other parties with which we have commercial relations; continued consumer acceptance of the Internet as a medium for ecommerce and payments in the face of increasing publicity about fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, malware and other dangers of the Internet; and macroeconomic and geopolitical events affecting commerce generally. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. We invest heavily in technology, marketing and promotion, customer support, protection programs and further development of the operating infrastructure for our core and non-core operations. Some of this investment entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. Growth rates of our Marketplaces businesses in some of our most established markets have been slower than that for ecommerce generally and have declined in certain periods. The growth of Internet users is slowing in many countries where we have a significant presence, and is accelerating in some countries where we do not (e.g., China, where we do not have a domestic business). Despite our efforts to stem our loss of market share in these and other markets, we may not be successful. As our growth rates in established markets slow, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing users, especially our top buyers and sellers, active and increasing their activity level on our websites in order to continue to grow our business. In addition, our Marketplaces business is facing increased competitive pressure. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, Internet ecommerce websites has significantly increased, due to, for example, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. If we are unable to change our services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce marketplace, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), our business will suffer. We have announced changes to our Marketplaces business intended to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency. For example, in the U.S. and the U.K., we have begun testing the efficacy of improving seller performance and increasing buyer satisfaction by requesting that PayPal place temporary holds on seller funds in certain instances (e.g., for sellers with a limited selling history or below-standard performance ratings), and we may expand the scope of such programs in the future and introduce other programs with similar aims in these and other countries. Some of the changes that we have announced to date have been controversial with, and led to dissatisfaction among, our sellers, and additional changes that we announce in the future may also be negatively received by some of our sellers. This may not only impact the supply of items listed on our websites, but because many sellers also buy from our sites, it may adversely impact demand as well. Given the number of recent changes that we have made to our policies and pricing, it may take our sellers some time to fully assess and adjust to these changes, and sellers may elect to reduce volume while making such assessments and adjustments or in response to these changes. If any of these changes cause sellers to move their business (in whole or in part) away from our websites or otherwise fail to improve gross merchandise volume or the number of successful listings, our operating results and profitability will be harmed. We believe that the mix of sales under our traditional auction-style listing format and fixed-price listing format will continue to shift towards our fixed-price format. Accordingly, we have eliminated some of the features related to our traditional auction-style format and expect others will become less meaningful to, and used less frequently by, our sellers, which would result in a corresponding decrease in revenues from such features. In addition, we expect that the costs associated with our seller discount programs will increase as more sellers become eligible for such discounts. In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions originate on the eBay platform, declines in growth rates in major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal's growth. The expected future growth of our PayPal, StubHub, and our other lower margin businesses may also cause downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms. The sluggish economy could harm our business. Our Marketplaces and Payments businesses are dependent on consumer purchases, and our GSI business is tied to the online growth in the U.S. of our clients and impacted by the offline businesses of our clients. The economic downturn resulted in reduced buyer demand and reduced selling prices and the slow recovery may reduce the volume of purchases on our Marketplaces platforms and the volume of transactions paid for using our Payment services, and the online and offline businesses of our GSI clients, all of which would adversely affect our business. In the event of the bankruptcy of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (such as airline, cruise or concert tickets), PayPal could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services either through its buyer protection program or through chargebacks on payment cards used by customers to fund their payment through PayPal. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Because we conduct the majority of our business outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or if exposure reports are delayed. PayPal also holds some corporate and customer funds in non-U.S. currencies, and thus its financial results are affected by the translation of these non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, our translation of foreign currency denominated transactions will result in lower net revenues, operating expenses and net income if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, as happened in the first half of 2010. Net revenues in the six months ended June 30, 2011 were positively impacted by foreign currency translation of $129.2 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. As exchange rates vary, net revenues and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, British pound, Korean won, or Australian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced as a result of these translation adjustments. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to perfectly predict or completely eliminate the effects of this exposure. In addition, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar or other currencies, cross-border trade related to purchases of dollar-denominated goods by non-U.S. purchasers will likely decrease, and that decrease will likely not be offset by a corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies, adversely affecting our business. In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. For example, relatively low interest rates have continued to limit our investment income, including income we earn on PayPal customer balances, which in turn has lowered our net interest income and net revenues. Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender. We acquired Bill Me Later, a company that facilitates credit services offered by an unaffiliated bank, in November 2008. Bill Me Later is neither a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state. Accordingly, Bill Me Later must rely on a bank or licensed lender to issue the Bill Me Later credit products and extend credit to customers in order to offer the Bill Me Later service. Currently, when a consumer makes a purchase using a Bill Me Later credit product issued by a chartered financial institution, the chartered financial institution extends credit to the consumer, funds the extension of credit at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. We subsequently purchase the receivables related to the extensions of credit made by the chartered financial institution and, as a result of the purchase, bear the risk of loss in the event of loan defaults. Although the chartered financial institution continues to own each customer account, we own the related receivable, and Bill Me Later is responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. In September 2010, WebBank became the issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products. WebBank is an industrial bank chartered by the State of Utah. Any termination or interruption of WebBank's ability to lend could result in our being unable to originate any new transactions for the Bill Me Later service. Under those circumstances, we would be required to either reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or to obtain our own bank charter, which would be a time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to a number of additional laws and regulations. A lawsuit has been filed against Bill Me Later, PayPal and eBay and is pending in the U.S. District Court for the Central District of California, alleging that in its relationship with the chartered financial institution, Bill Me Later is acting as the true lender to customers in violation of various California laws, including the state's usury law. The court dismissed the usury claims in December 2010, but breach of contract and other claims remain, and the plaintiffs are seeking to revive the usury claim. We believe that these allegations are without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. However, this area of law is uncertain and if the lawsuit is successful, Bill Me Later may be required to change its methods of operations, pay substantial damages and reduce some of its charges and fees, which would likely adversely affect our business. If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices. While PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send payments from 190 markets, PayPal only allows customers in 104 of those markets (including the U.S.) to receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. These limitations may affect PayPal's ability to grow in these markets. Of the 190 markets whose residents can use the PayPal service, 31 (27 countries plus four French overseas departments) are members of the European Union , or EU. Since 2007, PayPal has provided localized versions of its service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe) S.A.R.L. et Cie, SCA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg. Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks. PayPal has limited experience in operating as a bank, and any fines or other enforcement actions imposed by the Luxembourg regulator could adversely affect PayPal's business. PayPal (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries through a “passport” notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the “passport” notice process in all EU member countries. The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that will apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. These or similar actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, PayPal's plans for expanding its business in EU countries. In addition, the EU Payments Service Directive, which established a new regulatory regime for payment services providers, formally took effect in November 2009. The interpretation of regulations implementing the EU Payments Service Directive remains uncertain. In Australia, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Australia Pty. Ltd., which is licensed by the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. Accordingly, PayPal Australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Australian depository institutions. In China, PayPal is affiliated with Shanghai Wangfuyi Information Technology Ltd., which is licensed as an Internet Content Provider and operates a payments service only for Chinese customers and only for transactions denominated in Chinese currency. The People's Bank of China (PBOC) has recently enacted regulations to establish a new type of license, called a Payment Settlement Organization (PSO) license, which will be required for non-bank payment services. The PBOC regulations leave unclear whether a foreign-owned company such as PayPal can control or invest in a Payment Settlement Organization, and whether Wangfuyi would be eligible to obtain a PSO license. To date, PayPal has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter in 42 U.S. states, the District of Columbia and Puerto Rico, and has obtained interpretations in five other states that licensing is not required under their existing statutes. PayPal is also licensed as an escrow agent in one U.S. state. The remaining U.S. states do not currently regulate money transmitters. As a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to restrictions on its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. If PayPal were found to be in violation of money services laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to liability, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change its business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on PayPal. Any change to PayPal's business practices that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease the velocity of trade on eBay, which would further harm our business. In markets other than the U.S., the EU, Australia and the China domestic business, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Private Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore. PayPal Private Ltd. is regulated in Singapore as a stored value issuer. In many of these markets, it is not clear whether PayPal's Singapore-based service is subject only to Singaporean law or, if it were subject to local laws, whether such local law would require a payment processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial institution or otherwise. In such markets, the business may rely on partnerships with local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange in local currency. Local regulators who do not have direct jurisdiction over Singapore-based PayPal Private Ltd. may use their local regulatory power to slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through the local banking partner. Such regulatory actions impacting local banking partner arrangements could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of PayPal services in that market, or could prevent PayPal from providing any services in a given market. The Reserve Bank of India has asserted that PayPal's offering of payment services to customers outside of India to send personal, non-commercial payments to recipients in India requires a license from the Reserve Bank. For a period of time in 2010, the Reserve Bank directed the Indian affiliate of PayPal's processing bank to suspend withdrawals to the Indian bank accounts of PayPal customers for both personal and business customers. PayPal has ended personal non-commercial payments to and from Indian accounts and the ability of Indian sellers to spend payments they receive, and has also stopped offering certain commercial payments between Indian buyers and Indian sellers. In November 2010, the Reserve Bank of India issued guidelines to Indian banks on the requirements for processing export-related transactions for online payment gateway service providers such as PayPal, including a limitation on the amount of individual transactions to no more than $500. The Reserve Bank may again impose a suspension if it is not satisfied with PayPal's and its partner bank's actions to comply with these guidelines. In the event of any non-compliance, PayPal could be subject to fines from the Reserve Bank, and PayPal's prospects for future business in India, both cross-border and domestic, could be materially and adversely affected. Even if PayPal is not currently required to be licensed in some jurisdictions, future localization or targeted marketing of PayPal's service in those countries, or expansion of the financial products offered by PayPal (either alone, through a commercial alliance or through an acquisition), could subject PayPal to additional licensure requirements, laws and regulations and increased regulatory scrutiny, any of which may harm PayPal's business. For example, PayPal expects it will require licenses in Japan and Russia to expand its services in those countries. There can be no assurance that PayPal will be able to obtain such licenses. Even if PayPal were able to obtain such licenses, there will be substantial costs involved in maintenance of such licenses, and PayPal will be subject to fines or other enforcement action if it violates disclosure, reporting, anti money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements of such licenses. These factors could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of PayPal's products. Delay or failure to receive such a license or regulatory approval could require PayPal to change its business practices or features in ways that would adversely affect PayPal's expansion plans, and could require PayPal to suspend providing products and services to customers in one or more countries. PayPal is also subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. Although PayPal has implemented a program to comply with these laws and regulations, any errors or failure to comply with federal, state or foreign money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties, and forfeiture of significant assets. In the United States, PayPal is subject to regulations that require it to report suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more, and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. The interpretation of suspicious activities in this context is uncertain. Pending regulations may require PayPal to revise the procedures it uses to verify the identity of its customers and to monitor international transactions more closely. Several countries in which PayPal is regulated, including Australia, Luxembourg and Singapore, have implemented new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and PayPal has had to make changes to its procedures in response. In November 2009, the Australian anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regulator (AUSTRAC) accepted an enforceable undertaking from PayPal Australia pursuant to which PayPal Australia agreed, among other things, to appoint an independent auditor to assess PayPal Australia's anti-money laundering compliance policies and procedures and issue a report identifying any unremediated deficiencies accompanied by a plan by PayPal to remedy any such deficiencies. In the enforceable undertaking, AUSTRAC expressed concern that PayPal Australia did not have systems and controls in place to manage adequately its money laundering and terrorist financing risk. In September 2010, the independent auditor completed its review and issued its report, and PayPal Australia submitted a remediation plan. PayPal Australia is in the process of investing in improvements to its anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing systems, policies and operations as part of its remediation plan. In addition, PayPal Australia will be required to obtain additional information from customers, verify that information, and monitor its customers' activities more closely. As PayPal continues to localize its services in additional jurisdictions, it could be required to meet standards similar to those in Australia. These requirements could impose significant costs on PayPal, cause delay to other planned product improvements, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the attractiveness of its products. Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date, PayPal has taken actions as though its service is subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board. Under such regulations, among other things, PayPal is required to provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, to follow specified error resolution procedures and to reimburse consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer. PayPal seeks to pass most of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its PayPal account. Additionally, even technical violations of these laws can result in penalties of up to $1,000 for each non-compliant transaction or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action, and we could also be liable for plaintiffs' attorneys fees. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. eBay Inc. and PayPal, Inc.; and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) were filed in the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations related to violations of aspects of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E and violations of a previous settlement agreement related to Regulation E, and/or allege that PayPal improperly held users' funds or otherwise improperly limited user's accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal's practices among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Regulation E or violations of other laws relating to PayPal's practices could expose PayPal to significant liability. Changes to PayPal's practices that may result from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend product resources, which could cause delay to other planned product improvements, which would further harm our business. Our Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to a variety of laws and regulations. Although we do not originate loans under the Bill Me Later service, we do purchase receivables related to the consumer loans extended by the bank which originates them, and one or more jurisdictions may conclude that the eBay company which purchases those receivables is a lender or money transmitter or loan broker, which could subject us to liability or regulation in one or more jurisdictions. As described under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above, a lawsuit has been filed against Bill Me Later in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California alleging that in its relationship with the former issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products, Bill Me Later was acting as the true lender to customers in violation of various California laws, including the state's usury law. Additionally, federal regulators could mandate changes to the relationship between us and the issuing bank of the Bill Me Later credit products. Any termination or interruption of the issuing bank's lending services to consumers could result in an interruption of Bill Me Later services, as described under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above. The listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may harm our business. We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our service by our users infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual property rights. See “Item 1 - Legal Proceedings” above. Although we have sought to work actively with the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners have been active in asserting their purported rights against online companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights have resulted in threats of litigation and actual litigation against us from time to time by rights owners, including litigation brought by luxury brand owners such as Tiffany & Co. in the U.S., Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany, Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France and L'Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. The plaintiffs in these cases seek to hold eBay liable for alleged counterfeit items listed on our sites by third parties; for “tester” and other consumer products labeled in a manner to prevent resale and for unboxed and other allegedly nonconforming products listed on our sites by third parties; for the alleged misuse of trademarks or copyrights in listings or otherwise on our sites, and in connection with paid search advertisements; for alleged violations of selective distribution channel laws or parallel import laws for listings of authentic items; and for alleged non-compliance with consumer protection laws. Such plaintiffs seek, among other things, injunctive relief and damages. In the aggregate, these suits could result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could adversely affect our business. There are approximately 30,000 rights owners in our verified rights owner (VeRO) program, and each rights owner has anywhere from one to several hundred brands. Statutory damages for copyright or trademark violations could range up to $30,000 per copyright violation and $100,000 per trademark violation in the U.S., and even higher in other jurisdictions. These and similar suits may force us to modify our business practices, which could lower our revenue, increase our costs or make our websites less convenient to our customers. Any such results could materially harm our business. In addition, rights owners have aggressively sought to reduce the applicability of limitations to intellectual property rights such as copyright exhaustion and the first sales doctrine in cases such as Vernor v. Autodesk Inc. (Ninth Circuit Court of Appeals) and Costco Wholesale Corp. v. Omega S.A. (Sup. Ct.). To the extent such doctrines are limited, the supply of goods available for resale on eBay may be adversely affected. In addition to litigation from rights owners, we may be subject to regulatory, civil or criminal proceedings and penalties if governmental authorities believe we have aided in the sale of counterfeit goods. While we have had some early success in defending against such litigation, more recent cases have been based, at least in part, on different legal theories than those of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in defending against such litigation. Plaintiffs in recent cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe harbors under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a hosting provider in the European Union under the Electronic Commerce Directive because of the alleged active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and that, whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should be found liable because we supposedly have not adequately removed listings that are counterfeit or are authentic but allegedly violate trademark or copyright law or effectively suspended users who have created such listings. We are continuously seeking to improve and modify our efforts to eliminate counterfeit and pirated items. These improvements are in response to ongoing business initiatives designed to reduce bad buyer experiences and improve customer satisfaction as well as in response to new patterns we are seeing among counterfeiters and others committing fraud on our users. Notwithstanding these efforts, we believe that the legal climate, especially in Europe, is becoming more adverse to our positions, which may require us to take actions which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, or make our websites less convenient to our customers, which may materially harm our business. In addition, a public perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on our sites, even if factually incorrect, could damage our reputation and our business. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may also seek to bring legal action against entities that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the use of PayPal's payment services in a transaction involving the sale of infringing items, including on our websites, our business could be harmed. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties' patents. We are a defendant in a number of patent suits and we have been notified of several other potential patent disputes, and expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our Marketplaces, Payments and GSI segments as our services continue to expand in scope and complexity, including through acquisitions, and the universe of patent owners who may claim that we infringe their patents correspondingly increases. These claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Use of our services for illegal purposes could harm our business. We may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or unlawful services, or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. We have been subject to several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In December 2004, an executive of Baazee.com, our Indian subsidiary, was arrested in connection with a user's listing of a pornographic video clip on that website. We continue to contest the charges related to this arrest. Similarly, one of our Korean subsidiaries (IAC) and one of its employees were found criminally liable for listings (which occurred prior to our acquisition of IAC) on IAC's website. The German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may have a duty to take reasonable measures to prevent prohibited DVDs from being sold on our site to minors and that competitors may be able to enforce this duty. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws, including antiscalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, distance selling laws and the sale of items outside of the U.S. that are regulated by U.S. export controls. Although we have prohibited the listing of illegal and stolen goods and certain high-risk items and implemented other protective measures, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, any of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our business. Certain manufacturers and large retailers have sought new U.S. federal and state legislation regarding stolen goods that could limit our ability to allow sellers to use our sites without confirming the source of, and their legal rights to sell, the underlying goods. In addition, from time to time we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal goods and stolen goods using our services. This negative publicity could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names and make users reluctant to use our services. PayPal's payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software and other copyrighted or trademarked goods, money laundering, terrorist financing, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, online securities fraud and encouraging, promoting, facilitating or instructing others to engage in illegal activities. There has been an increased focus by rights owners and U.S. government officials on the role that payments systems play in the sale of, and payment for, pirated digital goods on the Internet. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities, and additional payments-related proposals are under active consideration by government policymakers. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, illegal activities could still be funded using PayPal. Any resulting claims or liabilities could harm our business. If our GSI business is unable to enhance its platform and migrate clients to its new platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would be substantially harmed. Our GSI business is in the process of enhancing and unbundling the components of its ecommerce and payments platform and migrating its existing customers to its new platform. This project, which is not expected to be completed until 2013, is very expensive and time consuming and involves significant technical risk. If client migrations to the enhanced platform are delayed, or the enhanced platform is not accepted by the market, or GSI fails to meet client commitments and services level agreements, GSI could be subject to substantial penalties under its agreements with its clients, its relationships with its clients and their respective businesses could be substantially harmed, and our GSI business would be harmed. Even if accomplished successfully, this development and migration project may cost more than expected or take longer than currently planned, which could harm our GSI business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our service. As discussed above with respect to certain specific issues, the law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services is often unsettled. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability under a number of these theories have been brought against us, as well as other online service companies. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our service features a Feedback Forum, which includes information from users regarding other users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could be made in the future against us for not removing content posted in the Feedback Forum. Furthermore, several court decisions arguably have narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers like us under the Communications Decency Act. For example, the Ninth Circuit has held that certain immunity provisions under the Communications Decency Act might not apply to the extent that a website owner materially contributes to the development of unlawful content on its website. As our websites evolve, challenges to the applicability of these immunities can be expected to continue. In addition, the Paris Court of Appeal has ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that applicable laws protecting passive internet “hosts” from liability are inapplicable to eBay given that eBay actively promotes bidding on its sellers' listings and receives a commission on successful transactions, and is therefore a broker. the ECJ decision in the L'oreal case (see “Item 1 - Legal Proceedings” above) gave broad discretion to national courts in Europe to determine if Internet hosting immunity applies to eBay. This trend, if continued, may increase our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties. A large number of transactions occur on our websites on a daily basis. Government regulators have received a significant number of consumer complaints about both eBay and PayPal, which, while small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been contacted by various foreign and domestic governmental regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure practices from the Federal Trade Commission and regarding these and other business practices from the attorneys general of a number of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase educational messaging to users about funding choices, and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. From time to time, we face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to actions that we have taken that are designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites and we may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. For example, both the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia recently reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. Other regulators have requested information concerning PayPal's limitations of customer accounts. Similarly, Bill Me Later has from time to time received customer complaints that could result in investigations into Bill Me Later's business practices by state or federal regulators. As a result of the recent credit crisis, new laws have been passed, and we expect additional new laws and regulations to be adopted that impose, among other requirements, additional obligations and restrictions on the provision of credit. We are likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, including under existing or new credit laws or regulations, which may lead to action against us. We have responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures, operating procedures and disclosures. If one or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties, or forced to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes. From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our company has grown larger and the scope of our businesses has expanded. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the courts as our services to users continues to expand and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable. We are also subject to federal, state, local and foreign laws of general applicability, including laws regulating working conditions (e.g., the Fair Labor Standards Act). Any claims or regulatory actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, damage awards (including statutory damages for certain causes of action in certain jurisdictions), injunctive relief, or increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or settlement, require us to change our business practices in expensive ways, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate. In 2009, 2010 and 2011, we have transitioned buyers in the U.S., U.K. and Germany to a dispute resolution process provided by eBay customer support, which now serves as the primary entry point for buyers who are unable to resolve their disputes with eBay sellers. Among other things, the resolutions process provides that eBay will generally reimburse the buyer for the full amount of an item's purchase price (including original shipping costs), in cases where the item was not received or the item they received was different from that described in the listing, and the seller does not provide adequate resolution to the buyer. eBay then attempts to recoup amounts paid to the buyer from the seller's PayPal accounts or other collection methods. Our costs associated with resolutions have increased as a result of these changes to our resolutions policies and process. These changes, together with any further changes that we may make to our resolutions process in the future, may be negatively received by, and lead to dissatisfaction on the part of, some of our sellers. These changes may also result in an increase in buyer fraud and associated transaction losses. In addition, eBay may not have the same level of rights of recoupment against sellers as PayPal, which may result in higher costs to operate the program. Failure to deal effectively with bad transactions and customer disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our business. Over the last several years, we have enhanced the buyer and seller protections offered by PayPal in certain eBay marketplaces, and in certain countries for transactions outside of eBay marketplaces. These changes to PayPal's buyer and seller protection program could result in future changes and fluctuations in our Payments transaction loss rate. For the the six months ended June 30, 2011 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, our Payments transaction losses (including both direct losses and buyer protection payouts) totaled $104.1 million and $153.1 million, representing 0.20% and 0.17% of our net total payment volume, respectively. Beginning in 2009, we have also changed the dispute resolution process for transactions on eBay.com, eBay.co.uk and eBay.de, as described in greater detail above under the caption “Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate,” which could result in an increase in our combined eBay and PayPal transaction losses. PayPal's highly automated and liquid payment service makes PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using stolen credit card or bank account numbers can potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal's current and former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone out of business or significantly restricted their businesses largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent PayPal's anti-fraud systems using increasingly sophisticated methods. In addition, PayPal's service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches. Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud. PayPal incurs substantial losses due to claims from buyers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant's description, whether those claims arise from merchant fraud or from an unintentional failure to perform by the merchant. PayPal seeks to recover such losses from the merchant, but may not be able to recover in full if the merchant is unwilling or unable to pay. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from erroneous transmissions, and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. In addition to the direct costs of such losses, if they are related to payment card transactions and become excessive, they could potentially result in PayPal losing the right to accept payment cards for payment, which would materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, if PayPal were unable to accept payment cards, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and result in corresponding decreases in our net total payment volume, in which case our business would further suffer. The Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, users of the Bill Me Later service and third parties handling its user information, which could increase our exposure to transaction losses and adversely affect this business. Our Payments business has taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business will suffer. eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from users who may not have received the goods that they had purchased. In some cases individuals have been arrested and convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay also receives complaints from sellers who have not received payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the item, or because the buyer bid on the item maliciously in order to harm either the seller or eBay. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While eBay can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through our buyer protection programs. The impact of changes to our dispute resolutions program implemented beginning in 2009 is discussed in more detail above under the caption “Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate.” Our limited eBay and PayPal buyer protection programs represent the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased, or have received an item different than what was described. However, users who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their credit card company or bank, which in turn will seek reimbursement from PayPal. eBay also periodically receives complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is only beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for third-party actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our Marketplaces and Payments services could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, and diminish the value of our brand names. We believe that negative user experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using our services. Governmental regulators worldwide are also looking at approaches intended to reduce online fraud. Some of the current proposals (e.g., two-factor authentication in France to verify a user's identity) could increase our costs and require us to change our business practices in ways that would harm our business. From time to time, we have considered more active mechanisms designed to combat bad transactions and increase buyer satisfaction, including evaluating sellers on the basis of their transaction history and restricting or suspending their activity as a result. For example, in the U.S. and the U.K., we have begun testing the efficacy of improving seller performance and increasing buyer satisfaction by requesting that PayPal hold seller funds in certain instances (e.g., for sellers with a limited selling history or below-standard performance ratings), and we may expand the scope of such programs in the future and introduce other programs with similar aims in these and other countries. Our increased usage of these or other mechanisms to attempt to improve buyer satisfaction could result in dissatisfaction on the part of sellers, loss of share to competing marketplaces, reduced selection of inventory on our sites and other adverse effects. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade could harm our business. Cross-border trade has become an increasingly important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border transactions using our websites generally provide higher revenues and gross margins than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. We generally earn higher transaction fees for cross-border transactions involving PayPal, and our Marketplaces business continues to represent a relatively easy way for buyers and sellers to engage in cross-border trade compared with other alternatives. Any factors that result in a net reduction in cross-border trade, including, among other factors, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the interpretation and application of specific national or regional laws, such as selective distribution channel laws and parallel import laws, to users in other countries (e.g., the interpretation and application of such laws to the sale of “gray market” goods), the potential interpretation and application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the buyer, the seller, and/or the location of the item being sold), or any other factors that impose restrictions on, or increase the costs of, purchasing, selling or shipping goods across national borders (including customs enforcement and tariffs) would harm our business. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users' proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. An increasing number of websites, including several other large internet companies, have recently disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems, change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users' proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their payment card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. PayPal's users routinely provide credit card and other financial information, and GSI customers routinely provide credit card information which we maintain to facilitate the ease of future transactions. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer payment card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Non-technical means, for example, actions by a suborned employee, can also result in a data breach. Under payment card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of payment card information that we store, or that is stored by PayPal's direct payment card processing customers, we could be liable to the payment card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow payment card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept payment cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have, in certain instances, made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. For example, in December 2010, PayPal was subject to a series of distributed “denial of service” attacks following PayPal's decision to permanently restrict the account used by WikiLeaks due to a violation of PayPal's Acceptable Use Policy. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by parties with which we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our users' personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users' computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay, PayPal, a GSI client, or one of our other businesses (e.g., StubHub), or by a user of one of our businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via email or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” remain a serious problem that may damage our brands, discourage use of our websites, and increase our costs. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users, especially for financial information and for users located outside of the U.S. In addition, as an entity licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg, PayPal (Europe) S.A.R.L. et Cie, SCA is subject to banking secrecy laws. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions but also to transfers of information between ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. New laws in this area have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. In addition, we have and post on our websites our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. In addition, our GSI business utilizes “behavioral marketing” (generally, the tracking of a user's online activities) to deliver relevant content to Internet users. The Federal Trade Commission, or FTC, has released a Staff Report with principles to address consumer privacy issues that may arise from behavioral marketing and to encourage industry self-regulation. The FTC also has issued a Staff Report in December 2010 on consumer privacy policy, proposing a set of self-regulatory best practices and several policy recommendations for consideration by Congress, including institution of ""do not track"" mechanisms. In the future, regulations or legislation could, if enacted, prohibit the use of certain technologies that track individuals' activities on the Internet. Such laws and regulations could restrict our ability to collect and use page viewing data and personal information, which may reduce demand for GSI's ecommerce services and interactive marketing services businesses. If our interactive marketing products are perceived to cause or are otherwise unfavorably associated with invasions of privacy, whether or not illegal, we or our clients may be subject to public criticism. Existing and potential future privacy laws and increasing public concerns regarding data collection, privacy and security may cause some Internet users to be less likely to visit our clients' websites or otherwise interact with them. If enough consumers choose not to visit our customers' websites or otherwise interact with them, our customers could stop using our interactive marketing products, and the growth of these businesses could be harmed or it may not be possible to continue the current business models for these products. Our revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our control. We derive significant revenue from advertising on our websites. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such as general changes in the economy and changes in consumer spending, as well as the effectiveness of online advertising versus offline advertising media and the value our websites provide to advertisers relative to other websites. Recent economic conditions have adversely impacted our advertising revenue. In addition, major search engine operators have the ability to change from time to time, at their sole discretion, the rules and search algorithms governing the pricing, availability, and placement of online advertising. Any changes in these rules or search algorithms could materially reduce the value that we derive from online advertising on our websites, either directly or indirectly. For example, retailers pay a fee to Shopping.com for online shoppers directed to their websites by Shopping.com. Rule changes made by search engines in 2008 disrupted traffic to our Shopping.com website, which in turn adversely affected click-through traffic to retailers from our Shopping.com website and associated fee revenue. Furthermore, we recently changed the placement of ads on our sites, which may reduce the amount we are paid. Finally, legislators and regulators in various jurisdictions, including the U.S. and the European Union, are reviewing Internet advertising models and the use of user-related data, and are considering proposals that could restrict or otherwise impact this business model. If we experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to economic, competitive, regulatory, technological or other factors, including the worldwide economic slowdown, or due to the renegotiation of the terms of our contracts with major advertising companies or due to a reduction in our ability to effectively place advertisements on our sites or otherwise provide value to our advertisers, our business and financial results would suffer. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require a continued focus on active marketing efforts across all of our brands. We will need to continue to spend substantial amounts of money on, and devote substantial resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Since 2005, we have significantly increased the number of brands we are supporting, adding Shopping.com, our classified websites (e.g., eBay Classifieds, Kijiji, Marktplaats and Den Blå Avis), StubHub, Bill Me Later and Gmarket, among others. Each of these brands requires its own resources, increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. Also, major search engine operators that we use to advertise our brands have frequently-changing rules that govern their pricing, availability and placement of online advertisement (e.g., paid search, keywords), and changes to these rules could negatively affect our use of online advertising to promote our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business would be harmed. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy apply to online businesses such as ours. The majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the U.S. “CAN-SPAM” Act and the European Union's Directives on Distance Selling and Electronic Commerce, are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. Furthermore, as our activities and the types of goods and services listed on our websites expand, including through acquisitions such as Bill Me Later and StubHub, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to licensure or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions (e.g., the sale of real estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats and automobiles). Recent financial and political events may increase the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies in general and financial services companies in particular. Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing businesses that perceive our business model to be a threat to their business to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators. These established businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. In particular, these established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. In addition, regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past. Changing the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Over the last few years some large retailers and their trade associations have sought legislation in a number of states and the U.S. Congress that would make eBay liable for the sale of stolen property or would ban certain categories of goods from sale on our platform, including gift cards and health and beauty products. No such legislation has passed. Nonetheless, the proponents continue to seek passage of such legislation, and if any of these laws are adopted they could harm our business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, where our headquarters are located, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions, including France, have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to impose such regulations upon us or our users. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing and such attempted enforcements could harm our business. In France, we have been sued by Conseil des Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority. The authority alleges that sales on our French website constitute illegal auctions that cannot be performed without its consent. Although we have won this lawsuit in the lower court, this decision is being appealed. A lawsuit alleging similar claims has been brought against us by two associations of French antique dealers, and is now pending on appeal after we won this lawsuit in the first instance. We intend to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. However, these and other regulatory and licensure claims could result in costly litigation and, if successful, could require us to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues (for example, by forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items for some locations). We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder's consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, and we facilitate sales of goods to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, we were found liable in France, under French law in the Louis Vuitton Malletier litigation for transactions on some of our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers or sellers (see “Item 1 - Legal Proceedings” above). Laws regulating Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the U.S. may be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, competitors, users and other third parties. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us. Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. In light of the global financial crisis, U.S. federal lawmakers enacted legislation in 2010 overhauling the federal government's oversight of consumer financial products and systemic risk in the U.S. financial system. Although the full effect of the new legislation will be dependent on regulations to be adopted by a number of different agencies, we expect the general effect of the new law will be to require PayPal and Bill Me Later to make additional disclosures to their users and to impose new restrictions on certain of their activities. These new obligations will increase our costs and may result in increased litigation, the need to make expensive product changes and other adverse impacts on our business. In addition, we also expect that the continued implementation of the financial reform law enacted in 2010 will adversely impact some significant traditional revenue streams for banks, such as overdraft fees and debit card interchange fees. As a result, banks may need to revise their business models to remain profitable, which may lead them to charge more for services which were previously provided for free or at lower cost. Any resulting increases in service fees required for PayPal to process transactions (e.g., service fees for automated clearing house transactions) would increase our costs and adversely affect our business. Changes to payment card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm PayPal's business. PayPal does not directly access payment card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard, which enable PayPal's acceptance of credit cards and debit cards (including some types of prepaid cards). As a result, PayPal must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions, and must pay fees for this service. From time to time, payment card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. PayPal's payment card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to PayPal as well as increase their own fees for processing. Changes in interchange fees and assessments could increase PayPal's operating costs and reduce its profit margins. In addition, in some markets, governments have required Visa and MasterCard to reduce interchange fees, or have opened investigations as to whether Visa or MasterCard's interchange fees and practices violate antitrust law. In the United States, the financial reform law enacted in 2010 authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to regulate debit card interchange rates and debit card network exclusivity provisions, and in June 2011, the Federal Reserve Board voted to cap debit card interchange fees at significantly lower rates than Visa or MasterCard previously charged. Any material reduction in credit or debit card interchange rates in the United States or other markets could jeopardize PayPal's competitive position against traditional credit and debit card processors (although it could also reduce PayPal's costs). While the regulations adopted by the Federal Reserve Board in June 2011 do not treat PayPal as a “payment card network,” future changes to PayPal's business could potentially cause PayPal to be so treated, which could reduce PayPal's revenue and adversely affect PayPal's business. PayPal is required by its processors to comply with payment card network operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by payment card networks as a result of any rule violations by PayPal or PayPal's customers. The payment card networks set and interpret the card rules. Payment card networks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow, or expensive to implement. As a result, PayPal could lose its ability to give customers the option of using payment cards to fund their payments, or could lose its ability to give customers the choice of currency in which they would like their card to be charged, which would reduce PayPal's revenues from cross-border trade. If PayPal were unable to accept payment cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In addition, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and our business would further suffer. PayPal is required to comply with payment card networks' special operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal and its payment card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchant customers in order to comply with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in fines, the amount of which would be within the payment card networks' discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines from payment card networks if it fails to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. For “high risk” merchants, PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using PayPal or register such merchants with payment card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has incurred fines from its payment card processors relating to PayPal's failure to detect the use of its service by “high risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has not been material, but any additional fines in the future would likely be for larger amounts, could become material, and could result in a termination of PayPal's ability to accept payment cards or changes in PayPal's process for registering new customers, which would seriously damage PayPal's business. Similarly, consumers typically pay for purchases through GSI's ecommerce services platforms by payment card or similar payment method. Accordingly, GSI faces risks similar to the risks described above for PayPal. Bill Me Later's operations expose us to additional risks. Risks associated with our reliance on an unaffiliated lender in providing the Bill Me Later service are discussed in detail under the caption “Bill Me Later's operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above. The Bill Me Later service relies on third-party merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. For the six months ended June 30, 2011 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010, approximately 74% and 67%, respectively, of all transaction volume by dollar amount through the Bill Me Later service was settled through the facilities of a single vendor. Any disruption to these third party payment processing and gateway services would adversely affect the Bill Me Later service. The Bill Me Later service is offered to a wide range of consumers, and the financial success of this business depends on the ability of the issuing bank of the Bill Me Later credit products to manage credit risk related to those products. The lender extends credit using Bill Me Later's proprietary segmentation and credit scoring algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of specific customers based on their past purchasing and payment history as well as their credit scores. Based on these performance criteria, the lender may extend or increase lines of credit to consumers at the point of sale. These algorithms and techniques may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer due to, among other factors, inaccurate assumptions about a particular consumer or the economic environment. The accuracy of the predictions and the ability of the lender and us to manage credit risk related to the Bill Me Later service may also be affected by legal or regulatory changes (such as bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations), competitors' actions, changes in consumer behavior and other factors. The lender may also incorrectly interpret the data produced by these algorithms in setting its credit policies, which may impact the financial performance of the Bill Me Later service. In addition, economic and financial conditions in the U.S. may affect consumer confidence levels and reduce consumers' ability or willingness to use credit, including the credit extended by the lender to consumers who use the Bill Me Later service, which could impair the growth and profitability of this business. We anticipate that the volume of credit extended by WebBank (the financial institution issuing the Bill Me Later credit products) will increase as we begin to enable qualified buyers with a PayPal account to use Bill Me Later as a payment funding option for transactions on eBay.com and on certain merchant websites that accept PayPal. We purchase the receivables relating to these consumer loans extended by the issuing bank, and therefore bear the risk of loss. Like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer credit, the Bill Me Later service faces the risk that certain account holders will default on their payment obligations, making the receivables uncollectible and creating the risk of potential charge-offs. The rate at which receivables were charged off as uncollectible, or the net charge-off rate, was approximately 4.60% and 7.71%, respectively, for the six months ended June 30, 2011 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. The nonpayment rate among Bill Me Later users may increase due to, among other things, worsening economic conditions, such as the current recession in the U.S., and higher unemployment rates. Consumers who miss payments on their obligations often fail to repay them, and consumers who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their credit. The age and rate of growth of the receivables related to a consumer credit portfolio also affects the rate of missed payments and accounts charged off as uncollectible. We currently fund the purchase of receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts through the sale of commercial paper, our cash balances and free cash flow generated from our portfolio of businesses. Effective September 1, 2010, we fund the purchase of receivables generated through new Bill Me Later accounts using funds from our international subsidiaries; this funding is facilitated through our Luxembourg-based bank. A downgrade in our credit ratings, particularly our short-term credit ratings, would likely reduce the amount of commercial paper we could issue (or, in certain circumstances, could prevent us from making commercial paper borrowings), increase our commercial paper borrowing costs, or both. If we are unable to fund our purchase of receivables related to the Bill Me Later business adequately or in a cost-effective manner, the growth and profitability of this business could be significantly and adversely affected. Additionally, in providing the Bill Me Later service, we face other risks similar to those faced by PayPal, including the risk of system failures, security breaches or other loss of customer data, fraud, intellectual property claims, compliance failures, and changes to regulations relating to credit offerings (including those stemming from the continued implementation of the financial reform law enacted in 2010), as described elsewhere in these Risk Factors, including under the captions “Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties” and “If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfer, money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices.” Changes in PayPal's funding mix could adversely affect PayPal's results. PayPal pays significant transaction fees when customers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower payments when customers fund payments with debit cards, nominal fees when customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or use buyer credit issued by GE Money Bank. As of October 2009, eligible U.S. customers may also fund payment transactions through a loan originated by an unaffiliated lender as part of the Bill Me Later service, and PayPal will incur no fees for such transactions. Customers fund a significant portion of PayPal's payment volume using credit cards, and PayPal's financial success will remain highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its senders fund payments using credit cards. Senders may prefer funding using credit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of reasons, including the ability to dispute and reverse charges directly with their credit card provider if merchandise is not delivered or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles, cash rebates, or other incentives offered by credit card issuers, the ability to defer payment, or a reluctance to provide bank account information to PayPal. In addition, some of PayPal's offerings, including the ability for buyers to make a limited number of payments without opening an account, have a higher rate of credit card funding than PayPal's basic product offering. PayPal's failure to manage customer funds properly would harm its business. PayPal's ability to manage and account accurately for customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and limited management experience in managing these internal controls. As PayPal's business continues to grow, it must strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal's success requires significant public confidence in its ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to manage customer funds accurately could severely diminish customer use of PayPal's products. System failures could harm our business. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our websites will reduce our current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and profits, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to 22 hours. In November 2009, technical systems issues resulted in eBay.com users being unable to search for listed items for a period of several hours. Our PayPal website has suffered intermittent unavailability for periods as long as five days, most recently for approximately three hours primarily on our ebay.co.uk site in May 2011. Other of our websites (e.g., StubHub) have experienced intermittent unavailability from time to time. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical for PayPal, especially as it seeks to expand its Merchant Services business. Because PayPal is a regulated financial institution, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to fines, penalties, or mandatory changes to PayPal's business practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers' businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, human error, hardware or software defects or malfunctions, and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems, including our Shopping.com website and the systems related to the Bill Me Later business, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. If we are unable to cost-effectively upgrade and expand our websites and platforms, our business would suffer. We must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our websites and platforms, and the new products and features we regularly introduce. As our PayPal business continues to grow, we are focused on updating our PayPal platform to provide increased scale, improved performance and additional built-in functionality addressing regulatory compliance matters (e.g., anti-money laundering). This upgrade process is expensive, and the increased complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology, features, transaction processing systems, security infrastructure, or network infrastructure in a cost-effective manner to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume or changes to our site functionality could harm our business. Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer support, impaired quality of users' experiences of our services, impaired quality of services for third-party application developers using our externally accessible application programming interfaces and delays in reporting accurate financial information, and could result in customer dissatisfaction and the loss of existing users on our websites. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do so could result in problems on our sites. Further, steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our margins, and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. There are many risks associated with our international operations. Our international expansion has been rapid and our international business, especially in Germany, Korea and the U.K., has also become critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 55% and 54% of our net revenues, respectively, in the six months ended June 30, 2011 and the fiscal year ended December 31, 2010. Expansion into international markets, such as our entry into Turkey in May 2011 upon the completion of our acquisition of additional shares in GittiGidiyor and PayPal's entry into emerging markets, requires management attention and resources and requires us to localize our services to conform to local cultures, standards and policies. The commercial, financial, Internet, and transportation infrastructure in lesser-developed countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our business models. In many countries, we compete with local companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew our eBay marketplace offering from the Japanese market, and in 2007 we contributed our business in China to a joint venture with a local Chinese company. Even if we are successful in developing new markets, we often expect the costs of operating new sites to exceed our net revenues from those sites for at least 12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand internationally, including through the expansion of our businesses, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: strong local competitors; regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet services, auctioneering, professional selling, distance selling, privacy and data protection, banking, and money transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain categories of goods, require product changes, require special licensure, subject us to various taxes, penalties or audits, or limit the transfer of information between us and our affiliates; greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings and other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a result of legal systems that are less developed with respect to the Internet, unique local laws, conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, online trading or online payments; laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses; difficulties in integrating with local payment providers, including banks, credit and debit card networks, and electronic fund transfer systems; differing levels of retail distribution, shipping, and Internet infrastructures; different employee/employer relationships and labor laws, and the existence of workers' councils and labor unions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; challenges associated with joint venture relationships and minority investments, including dependence on our joint venture partners; difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, and greater problems in collecting accounts receivable; potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation of our fees or of transactions on our websites; higher Internet service provider costs; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; seasonal reductions in business activity; expenses associated with localizing our products, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency; foreign exchange rate fluctuations; our ability to repatriate funds from abroad without adverse tax consequences; the possibility that foreign governments may impose currency controls or other restrictions on the repatriation of funds; volatility in a specific country's or region's political, economic or military conditions (e.g., in South Korea relating to its disputes with North Korea); challenges associated with maintaining relationships with local law enforcement and related agencies; potentially higher incidence of fraud and corruption and higher credit loss risks; and differing intellectual property laws. Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we also could become subject to increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and repatriating money without adverse tax consequences, and increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations is discussed in more detail under the caption “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates” above. In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product development, customer support and other operations, in regions outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which reduce the anticipated benefits, including cost efficiencies and productivity improvements, associated with providing these functions outside of the U.S. could adversely affect our business. We maintain a portion of Shopping.com's research and development facilities and personnel in Israel, and in 2008 we acquired Fraud Sciences Ltd., an Israeli company. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect those operations. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its neighboring countries remains uncertain. Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed hostilities between Israel and neighboring countries or other entities could make it more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of employees due to military service, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. On June 17, 2011, we completed our acquisition of GSI Commerce, Inc., which provides ecommerce and interactive marketing services. For a discussion of new risks associated with our GSI business, please see the caption “Our acquisition of GSI Commerce, Inc. exposes us to new risks,” below. In May 2011, we completed our acquisition of additional shares of GittiGidiyor, a Turkish online marketplace, increasing our ownership stake in GittiGidiyor to approximately 93%. For a discussion of risks associated with our expansion into Turkey, which represents a new international market for us, please see the risk factor caption ""There are many risks associated with our international operations,"" above. We also recently announced that we have agreed to acquire Magento, an open source ecommerce platform provider, and Zong, which provides for payments through mobile carrier billing. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration, particularly given the number, size and varying scope of our recent acquisitions; declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; the need to integrate each company's accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; in some cases, the need to transition operations, users, and customers onto our existing or new platforms; and liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or all of our acquisitions, or may not realize them in the time frame expected. Future acquisitions or mergers may require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. In addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Our strategic investments may expose us to other risks. For example, GSI's minority interest in Intershop Communications AG is governed by German law, which could subject us to liability for certain disadvantages to Intershop if we were deemed to be in control of Intershop under German law. Our acquisition of GSI Commerce, Inc. exposes us to new risks. Our GSI business faces certain risks and challenges not shared by our other businesses, including those described under the risk factor captions ""If our GSI business is unable to enhance its platform and migrate clients to that new platform in a timely and cost-effective manner, it would be substantially harmed"" and ""Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business"" and the following: Importance of Enterprise Client Relationships. Key elements of the growth strategies of our GSI business include adding new clients and extending the term of existing client agreements. Competition for clients is intense, and our GSI business may not be able to add new clients or keep existing clients on favorable terms, or at all. For example, a change in the management of a GSI client could adversely affect our relationship with that client. In addition, many of our client contracts contain service level commitments. If our GSI business is unable to meet these commitments, its relationships with its clients could be damaged, and client rights to terminate their contracts with GSI and financial penalty provisions payable by GSI may be triggered. If any existing GSI clients were to exit the business we provide services to, be acquired, declare bankruptcy, suffer other financial difficulties, fail to pay amounts owed to GSI, and/or terminate or modify their relationships with GSI, our GSI business could be adversely affected. If agreements with existing clients expire or are terminated, GSI may be unable to renew or replace these agreements on comparable terms, or at all. GSI's ecommerce services revenues are tied to the growth of the online businesses of its clients, which may be impacted by the offline businesses of those clients. A portion of GSI's ecommerce services revenue is derived from the value of ecommerce transactions that flow through GSI's ecommerce services business. Accordingly, growth in GSI's ecommerce services revenue depends upon the continued growth of the online businesses of its clients. GSI's ecommerce services business may be substantially impacted by any adverse conditions in the offline businesses of GSI's clients that negatively impact a client's online businesses, and the impairment of the offline business of GSI clients, whether due to financial difficulties, impairment of client brands, reduction in marketing efforts, reduction in the number of client retail stores or otherwise, could adversely affect GSI's ecommerce services business. If any of these were to occur, consumer traffic and sales through GSI's clients' websites could be negatively affected, which would result in decreasing revenues generated by the GSI business. GSI's business also relies on its clients' ability to accurately forecast product demand and select and buy the inventory for their corresponding online businesses. Under such arrangements, the client establishes product prices and pays GSI service fees based either on a fixed or variable percentage of revenues, or on the activity performed. As a result, if GSI's clients fail to accurately forecast product demand or optimize or maintain access to inventory, the client's ecommerce business (and, in turn, GSI's service fees) could be adversely affected. Marketing and Promotional Arrangements. Our GSI business has relationships with search engines, comparison shopping sites, affiliate marketers, online advertising networks, and other websites to provide content, advertising banners and other links to its clients' ecommerce businesses. Our GSI business relies on these relationships as significant sources of traffic to clients' ecommerce businesses. If we are unable to maintain these relationships or enter into new relationships on acceptable terms, our ability to attract new customers could be harmed. Shipping Vendors. Our GSI business relies upon multiple third parties to ship the products sold in its clients' web stores. As a result, we are subject to the risks associated with the ability of these vendors and other third parties to successfully and timely fulfill and ship customer orders, as well as any price increases instituted by these vendors (e.g., fuel surcharges). The failure of these vendors to provide these services, or the termination or interruption of these services, could adversely affect the satisfaction of consumers, which in turn could result in reduced sales by GSI's clients' web stores. Storage of Customer Inventory. Our GSI business holds inventory on behalf of its ecommerce services customers, and GSI generally bears the risk of loss for such inventory. If GSI is unable to effectively manage and handle this inventory, this may result in unexpected costs that could adversely affect our GSI business. Any theft of such inventory, or damage or interruption to such inventory, including as a result of earthquakes, floods, fire, power loss, labor disputes, terrorist attacks, and similar events and disruptions, could result in losses related to such inventory and disruptions to GSI's customers' businesses, which could in turn adversely affect our GSI business. Reliance on email. GSI's interactive marketing solutions business relies on email marketing to drive consumer traffic to the web stores in GSI's ecommerce services business. Email could become a less effective means of communicating with and marketing to consumers for a variety of reasons, including the following: problems with technology that make GSI's email communications more difficult to deliver and for consumers to read (e.g., the inability of smart phones or similar communication devices to adequately display email); consumers may disregard marketing emails due to the large volume of such emails they receive; the inability of filters to effectively screen for unwanted emails, resulting in increased levels of junk mail, or “SPAM,” which may overwhelm consumer's email accounts; increased use of social networking sites, which may result in decreased use of email as a primary means of communication; continued security concerns regarding Internet usage in general from viruses, worms or similar problems; and increased governmental regulation or restrictive policies adopted by Internet service providers that make it more difficult or costly to utilize email for marketing communications. If any of our GSI entities were to end up on SPAM lists or lists of entities that have been involved in sending unwanted, unsolicited emails, their ability to contact customers through email could be significantly restricted. If any of the foregoing were to occur, the traffic to GSI's clients' ecommerce businesses and the demand for GSI's email marketing solutions could decrease and our GSI business could be harmed. Risks associated with our relationship with NRG Commerce, LLC. Immediately following our acquisition of GSI, eBay sold 100% of GSI's sports merchandise business and 70% of its RueLaLa and ShopRunner businesses (which we refer to collectively as the divested entities), to NRG Commerce, LLC, which we refer to as NRG. NRG is wholly-owned by GSI's former Chairman, President and Chief Executive Officer, Mr. Michael Rubin. Each of the divested entities was a direct or indirect wholly-owned subsidiary of GSI Commerce. In connection with (and as a result of) the divestiture to NRG, our GSI business maintains certain commercial and financial relationships with the divested entities which expose it to certain risks of the businesses of NRG and the divested entities. Our GSI business and the divested entities are parties to certain services agreements pursuant to which our GSI business will provide certain services to NRG. If GSI and NRG were to become engaged in disputes about these agreements and the parties' respective obligations under these agreements, management of GSI could be distracted from other clients and the business of GSI could be disrupted and substantially harmed. Our GSI business is also party to certain acquisition agreements relating to entities purchased by GSI prior to our acquisition, and which relate to businesses owned by the divested entities. NRG has agreed to indemnify GSI for certain liabilities incurred by GSI under these acquisition agreements. If such liabilities were realized and NRG was not able or willing to meet its indemnification obligations, GSI would be liable for them and its business could be harmed. As part of the NRG divestiture, we loaned NRG and the divested entities $467 million, which is secured by certain assets of the divested entities. NRG and the divested entities' ability to repay this obligation is dependent on the financial performance of NRG and the divested entities. If NRG is unable to repay this obligation, our results of operations and financial condition could be harmed. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax, and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of ecommerce. For example, the State of New York has passed legislation that requires any out-of-state seller of tangible personal property to collect and remit New York use tax if the seller engages affiliates above certain financial thresholds in New York to perform certain business promotion activities. Several ecommerce companies are challenging this new law. Also, in June 2011 California enacted legislation (ABx1 28) that requires certain out-of-state retailers to collect and remit California use tax on taxable sales to California purchasers when the retailer has a relationship with a person in the State that refers customers to the retailer. The new California law is similar to the law passed in New York, but provides exclusions for certain forms of Internet marketing and is limited to retailers who exceed prescribed sales volume thresholds. However, if our sellers who are not already required to collect California state or use tax believe that their use of our websites requires them to collect California use tax, they may elect to limit their use of our websites rather than collect the tax, which would harm our business. North Carolina, Rhode Island, Illinois, Arkansas and South Dakota have also enacted similar laws related to affiliates, and a number of other states appear to be considering similar legislation. The adoption of such legislation by states where eBay has significant operations that perform certain business promotion activities could result in a use tax collection responsibility for certain of our sellers. This collection responsibility and the additional costs associated with complex use tax collection, remittance and audit requirements would make selling on our websites less attractive for small business retailers, and would harm our business. The State of Colorado has enacted legislation that takes a different approach by imposing a set of use tax collection notice and reporting requirements (but not the actual tax collection responsibility) on certain retailers with no physical presence in Colorado. The law is designed to aid Colorado in collecting use tax from Colorado residents who purchase taxable items from out-of-state retailers. The regulation promulgated by the Colorado Department of Revenue excludes from these reporting obligations businesses that sell $100,000 or less into the state in a calendar year, thus limiting the impact on our sellers. The law has been challenged in Federal Court by a number of out-of-state retailers and a Federal District Court has issued an injunction blocking enforcement of the regulations pending a resolution of the case. Oklahoma has enacted a similar law. While the recent laws in New York, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Illinois, Arkansas, South Dakota, Oklahoma and Colorado do not specifically apply to our business, the proliferation of such state legislation, to expand sales and use tax collection on Internet sales, could adversely affect some of our sellers and indirectly harm our business. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project — an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state, and local governments to require collection and remittance of remote sales tax by out-of-state sellers — H.R. 5660, the Main Street Fairness Act, was most recently introduced in the 111th Session of the U.S. Congress. The Act, which was not enacted prior to the adjournment of the Congress, would allow states that meet certain simplification and other standards to require out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. Sellers meeting an as yet undefined small seller exception would be excluded from the requirements of the Act. This legislation, which may be reintroduced in the 112th Congress as a way to enable states to increase sales tax revenues and help address significant state budgetary shortfalls caused by the economic downturn. The adoption of this Act or similar legislation that lacks a robust small business exemption would result in the imposition of sales taxes and additional costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on our sellers. This would make selling on our websites less attractive for small retailers, and would harm our business. From time to time, some taxing authorities have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes. In May 2008, the City of Chicago notified both eBay and StubHub that they are liable for a city amusement tax on tickets to events in Chicago, irrespective of the location of the buyer or seller, and filed suit to enforce collection of taxes it claims are due. In March 2009, the court ruled that StubHub is not required to collect and remit the city amusement tax. The City of Chicago requested reconsideration of this ruling and StubHub sought clarification of the ruling relative to the remaining counts as well. In August 2009, the court entered a final order dismissing the case against StubHub. In December 2009, the court also dismissed the case against eBay. The City of Chicago appealed both matters to the Seventh Circuit Court of Appeals. The Seventh Circuit recently issued an opinion in the StubHub matter rejecting the federal arguments advanced by StubHub and certifying the state law arguments to the Illinois State Supreme Court. The Seventh Circuit is holding its ruling on the eBay matter in abeyance pending a resolution of the StubHub proceedings. The application of similar existing or future laws could adversely affect our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. The U.S. federal government's moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce has been extended through November 2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. Similar issues exist outside of the U.S., where the application of VAT or other indirect taxes on ecommerce providers such as eBay is uncertain and evolving. While we attempt to comply in those jurisdictions where it is clear that a tax is due, certain of our subsidiaries have, from time to time, received claims relating to the applicability of indirect taxes to our fees.  Should such taxes become applicable, our business could be harmed. We collect and remit indirect taxes in certain jurisdictions. However, tax authorities may raise questions about our obligation to collect and remit such taxes, as well as the proper calculation of such taxes. For example, a Korean tax authority is currently asserting that certain coupons and incentives available on our sites should not be deducted when computing taxes on our fees. Should any new taxes become applicable to our fees or if the taxes we pay are found to be deficient, our business could be harmed. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. One or more states or the federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been discussed in the U.S. Congress, several states, and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if an eBay company was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which eBay operates. In July 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221) was signed into law. This law contains provisions that require companies that provide payments over electronic means to users to report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) information on payments received by certain customers. . The legislation, effective for payments received after December 31, 2010, requires PayPal and other electronic payments providers, as well as potentially StubHub and similar companies, to report to the IRS on customers subject to U.S. income tax who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a year, to request tax ID numbers from U.S. taxpayers and track payments by tax ID number, and to withhold a proportion of payments and forward such withholding to the IRS if customers who receive more than 200 payments do not provide correct and complete information. We have had to modify our software to meet these requirements and expect increased operational costs in connection with complying with these reporting obligations. The IRS regulations may also require us to collect a certification of non-U.S. taxpayer status from international merchants. These requirements may decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. Any failure by us to meet these new requirements could result in substantial monetary penalties and other sanctions and could harm our business. One or more other jurisdictions may also seek to impose tax-collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Imposition of a discriminatory record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Foreign authorities may also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from, or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify eBay's obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting requirements could harm our users and our business. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which eBay conducts or will conduct business. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have laws and regulations covering the resale of event tickets. Some jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices above the face value of the tickets or at all, or highly regulate the resale of tickets, and new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions may be adopted that could limit or inhibit our ability to operate, or our users' ability to continue to use, our tickets business. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions. In October 2007, two plaintiffs filed a purported class action lawsuit in North Carolina Superior Court alleging that StubHub sold (and facilitated and participated in the sale) of concert tickets to plaintiffs with the knowledge that the tickets were resold in violation of North Carolina's maximum ticket resale price law (which has been subsequently amended). In February 2011, the trial court granted plaintiffs' motion for summary judgment, concluding that immunity under the Communications Decency Act did not apply. The trial court further held that StubHub violated the North Carolina unfair and deceptive trade practices statute as it pertains to the two named plaintiffs, and certified its decision for immediate appeal to the North Carolina Court of Appeals. StubHub has appealed this decision. Some event organizers and professional sports teams have expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our sites. Suits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such litigation could result in damage awards, could require us to change our business practices in ways that may be harmful to our business, or could otherwise negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. The recent economic downturn has resulted in a decrease in ticket prices sold on our sites and has negatively impacted revenue and profits. In addition, a work stoppage, strike or lockout by a professional sports league (for example, the current lockouts by each of the National Football League and the National Basketball Association) could result in the cancellation of all or a portion of the games in a league's season, which would harm our tickets business. In addition, a portion of StubHub's tickets inventory is held in digital form. Systems failures or other disruptions that result in the loss of such tickets inventory could materially harm our tickets business. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies (such as Live Nation Entertainment (formerly Ticketmaster), AEG, Comcast-Spectacor and Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports teams and leagues), ticket brokers, and other online and offline ticket resellers, such as TicketsNow (which is owned by Live Nation Entertainment) and RazorGator. In addition, some ticketing service companies and event organizers have begun to issue event tickets through various forms of electronic ticketing systems that are designed to restrict or prohibit the transferability of such event tickets. Ticketing service companies have also begun to use market-based pricing strategies or dynamic pricing to charge much higher prices that they historically have for premium tickets. Besides charging higher prices, these ticketing service companies have also imposed additional restrictions on transferability for these types of tickets, such as requiring customers to pick up these tickets at will-call with the purchasing credit card. To the extent that event tickets issued in this manner cannot be resold on our websites, or to the extent that we are otherwise unable to compete with these competitors, our tickets business would be harmed. We depend on key personnel. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel and our ability to retain and motivate them. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel, we do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies, and some members of our senior management team have fully vested the vast majority of their in-the-money equity incentives. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. We currently have a number of vacancies on our senior management team (including President, eBay Marketplaces) that we are seeking to fill. Our businesses all depend on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees whose stock option strike prices are substantially above current market prices. Similarly, decreases in the number of unvested in-the-money stock options held by existing employees, whether because our stock price has declined, options have vested, or because the size of follow-on option grants has declined, may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our users could harm our business. A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our users list items, caching services that make our sites load faster, and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial interest in their success, while in other cases we have none. PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that link PayPal to the payment card and bank clearing networks. Similarly, Bill Me Later relies on an unaffiliated lender in providing the Bill Me Later service and also relies heavily on third parties to operate its services, including merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes or work stoppages) or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our users could reduce the number of listings on our websites or make completing transactions or payments on our websites more difficult, thereby harming our business. In addition, price increases by companies that provide services to our users (such as postal and delivery services) could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our users to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. Any security breach at a company providing services to our users could also adversely affect our customers and harm our business. In addition, we have outsourced certain functions to third-party providers, including customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, reputation and operating results. Although we generally have been able to renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with, or if necessary replace, third parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy due to poor economic conditions, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to our users will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Measures that we sometimes take to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our sites by making our sites more difficult to use or restricting the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage or train our own or outsourced customer support representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our customers' confidence. Because it is providing a financial service and operating in a more regulated environment, PayPal must provide telephone as well as email customer support and must resolve certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of PayPal's program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer's account activity are identified by PayPal's risk models as suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity with respect to its customer support and account restrictions, and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things, failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. eBay Inc. and PayPal, Inc.; and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) were filed in the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations that PayPal improperly held user's funds or otherwise improperly limited user's accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal's practices among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to PayPal's practices can expose PayPal to significant liability. Changes to PayPal's practices that may result from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend product resources, which could cause delay to other planned product improvements, which would further harm our business. If PayPal is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, PayPal's users may have negative experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged, and it could become subject to additional litigation. As a result, current and future revenues could suffer, losses could be incurred, and its operating margins may decrease. In addition, negative publicity about, or negative experiences with, customer support for any of our businesses could cause our reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in our brands individually or as a whole. Our industries are intensely competitive. Marketplaces Our Marketplaces businesses currently or potentially compete with a large number of companies providing particular categories of goods and/or broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the future. The barriers to entry into these channels can be relatively low and current offline and new competitors, including small businesses who want to create and promote their own stores, can easily launch online sites at nominal cost using commercially available software or partnering with any one of a number of successful ecommerce companies. Moreover, online and offline business increasingly are competing with each other. Consumers who purchase or sell goods and services through our Marketplaces businesses have more and more alternatives. Our competitors include the vast majority of traditional department, warehouse, discount, and general merchandise stores (as well as the online operations of these traditional retailers), emerging online retailers, online classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the U.S., these include Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy's, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam's Club, Amazon.com, Buy.com (owned by Rakuten), AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC, and Home Shopping Network, among others. A number of companies offer a variety of services that provide channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites such as craigslist (in which we own a minority equity stake), Google Merchant Center, Oodle.com and a number of international websites operated by Schibsted ASA. In certain markets, our fixed-price listing and traditional auction-style listing formats are increasingly being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. Our classifieds websites, including eBay Classifieds, Kijiji, Marktplaats, mobile.de, Gumtree, Den Blå Avis, BilBasen and Rent.com, offer classifieds listings in the U.S. and a variety of local international markets. In many markets in which they operate, including in the U.S., our classified platforms compete against more established online and offline classifieds platforms. Our online shopping comparison site, Shopping.com, competes with sites such as Buy.com, Google's Product Search, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. Recent legal developments may affect the utility of shopping comparison sites if manufacturers limit variation in product pricing. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on search engine sites such as Google, Bing and Yahoo!. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to help users find our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. We also compete with many local, regional, and national specialty retailers and exchanges in each of the major categories of products offered on our site. For example, category-specific competitors to offerings in our “Home and Garden” category include, among others, Ashley Furniture, Bed, Bath & Beyond, Brylane, Crate & Barrel, CSN Stores, Frontgate, Haverty's, IKEA, Hayneedle, Home Depot, Kohl's, Lamps Plus, Lowe's, Lumber Liquidators, Menards, OSH, Pier One, Pottery Barn, Rooms to Go, Williams-Sonoma and World Market, antique and collectible dealers, antique and collectible fairs, auction houses, estate sales, flea markets and swap meets, independent coin and stamp dealers, and specialty retailers. Our international Marketplaces websites compete with similar online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online ecommerce sites, such as: Quelle and Otto in Germany; Leboncoin.fr and PriceMinister (owned by Rakuten) in France; Taobao in China; Tradus (owned by Naspers) in Poland; Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan; Lotte, Naver and 11th Street in South Korea; Trading Post, OZtion and Aussie Bidder in Australia; and Amazon and Play.com in the United Kingdom and other countries. In some of these countries, there are online sites that have much larger customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do, and in certain of these jurisdictions there are competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce than we do. As our businesses in less-developed countries grow, we increasingly may compete with domestic competitors which have advantages we do not possess, such as a greater ability to operate under local regulatory authorities. The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the following: ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online competition, additional competitive factors include:community cohesion, interaction and size; website ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online ecommerce sites may be acquired by, receive investments from, or enter into other commercial relationships with well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. Some of our competitors may offer or continue to offer free shipping or other transaction-related services which improve the user experience on their sites and which could be impractical or inefficient for eBay sellers to match. New technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer more efficient or lower-cost services. In addition, certain established retailers may encourage manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their products to dealers who sell through online channels such as eBay, or may attempt to use existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods or services. For example, manufacturers may attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our websites or on the Internet generally, or at prices that would make our site attractive relative to other alternatives. The adoption by manufacturers of policies, or the adoption of new laws or regulations or interpretations of existing laws or regulations by government authorities, in each case discouraging the sales of goods or services over the Internet, could force eBay users to stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased competition or anti-Internet distribution policies or regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brands. In order to respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among some of our sellers, which could reduce activity on our websites and harm our profitability. Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with several large online services and search engine companies, these arrangements may not be renewed on favorable terms or these companies may decide to promote competitive services. Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in increased usage of our sites. In addition, companies that control user access to transactions through network access, Internet browsers, or search engines could promote our competitors, channel current or potential users to their vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their advertisers' sites, attempt to restrict access to our sites, or charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Search engines are increasingly becoming a starting point for online shopping, and as the costs of operating an online store continue to decline, online sellers may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers conduct through our sites. PayPal The markets for PayPal's product are intensely competitive and are subject to rapid technological change, including but not limited to: mobile payments, electronic funds transfer networks starting to allow Internet access, cross-border access to networks, creation of new networks, expansion of prepaid cards, and bill pay networks. PayPal competes with existing online and offline payment methods, including, among others: payment card merchant processors that offer their services to online merchants and multi-channel merchants, including American Express, Chase Paymentech, First Data, Wells Fargo, WorldPay, Barclays Merchant Services, Global Payments, Inc. and Square; and payment gateways, including CyberSource (which Visa has acquired) and Authorize.net (which has merged with CyberSource); money remitters such as MoneyGram, Western Union, Global Payments, Inc. and Euronet; bill payment services, including CheckFree, a subsidiary of Fiserv; processors that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit, including the newly-announced ClearXchange joint venture among Wells Fargo, Bank of America and JP Morgan Chase, , Acculynk, Moneta, eBillMe, and TeleCheck, a subsidiary of First Data, and Sofortuberweisung in Germany; providers of “digital wallet” services that offer customers the ability to pay online or on mobile devices through a variety of payment methods, including a new service announced by Visa, American Express's newly-launched Serve, and Google Wallet; providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit cards, checks, money orders, and Automated Clearing House transactions; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including VisaBuxx, NetSpend, Green Dot, PayNearMe and UKash; mobile payments, including Obopay, Amazon Payments, ISIS, Buyster, Mpass, O2 Money, Crandy, Payfone, LUUP and Payforit; Amazon Payments, which offers online merchants the ability to accept credit card- and bank-funded payments from Amazon's base of online customers on the merchant's own website; Google Checkout, which enables the online payment of merchants using credit cards; AliPay, which operates primarily in China but has announced plans to expand internationally; Other providers of online account-based payments, such as Moneybookers and ClickandBuy (primarily in the EU), Paymate and Visa PayClick in Australia, payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including Facebook and Hi5 credits, PlaySpan (which Visa has acquired) and Boku; payment services enabling banks to offer their online banking customers the ability to send and receive payments through their bank account, including ZashPay from Fiserv and Popmoney from CashEdge, both of which have announced collaboration agreements with Visa; and online shopping services that provide special offers linked to a specific payment provider, such as Visa's RightCliq, MasterCard MarketPlace, TrialPay and Tapjoy. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater name recognition, or a larger base of customers in affiliated businesses than PayPal. PayPal's competitors may respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also be subject to less burdensome licensing, anti-money laundering, and other regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to additional regulations based on, among other factors, its licensure as a bank in Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google Checkout has offered free payments processing on transactions in an amount proportionate to certain advertising spending with Google. Competing services tied to established banks and other financial institutions may offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal. In addition, in certain countries, such as Germany, Netherlands and Australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online and offline transactions. As in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and easily develop such a service. The principal competitive factors for PayPal include the following: ability to attract and retain both buyers and sellers with relatively low marketing expense; ability to show that sellers will achieve incremental sales by offering PayPal; security of transactions and the ability for buyers to use PayPal without sharing their financial information with the seller; low fees and simplicity of fee structure; ability to develop services across multiple commerce channels, including mobile payments and payments at the physical point of sale; trust in PayPal's dispute resolution and buyer and seller protection programs; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online competition, additional competitive factors include: website ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; data security; and quality of developer tools such as our Application Programming Interfaces and Software Development Kits. Some of PayPal's competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First Data, American Express and Royal Bank of Scotland, also provide processing or foreign exchange services to PayPal. If PayPal were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers, either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition, these processing and foreign exchange relationships could be negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services. GSI Our GSI business segment has two main businesses: ecommerce services and interactive marketing services. Ecommerce Services The market for the development and operation of ecommerce services that enable companies to operate ecommerce businesses and integrate their ecommerce businesses into their multichannel retail offerings is continuously evolving and intensely competitive. In our ecommerce services business, we face competition from in-house ecommerce solutions, technology and service providers which supply one or more components of an ecommerce solution and other providers of integrated ecommerce solutions. Many of our prospective ecommerce services clients evaluate managing all or some aspects of an ecommerce operation with internal resources. As a result, we often compete with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal information technology staffs, merchandising groups and other internal corporate constituencies as well as with technology and service providers that supply one or more components of an ecommerce solution that allow prospective clients to develop and operate their ecommerce business in-house. This group of providers may include the prospective client itself and companies that offer: Web platforms (e.g., Art Technology Group, IBM and Microsoft); customer care/call center services (e.g., West Communications, Sykes Enterprises, and Convergys); fulfillment and logistics (e.g., PFS Web, Innotrac, DHL and UPS); and systems integrators (e.g., Accenture, EDS, Sapient, Infosys and IBM). Low barriers to entry into the ecommerce services solutions market could increase the number of competitors our ecommerce services business may face. As we continue to expand internationally, our ecommerce services business will face increased competition from local companies which may have a greater understanding of, and focus on, the local customer. Our ecommerce services business has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition and greater financial, marketing and other resources. Those competitors may be able to secure merchandise on more favorable terms and devote more resources to technology development and marketing than our ecommerce services business.  We believe that we compete with ecommerce services competitors primarily on the basis of the following: offering the choice of a complete integrated solution or a component-based solution; promoting the client's brand and business, rather than our own; providing scale and operating leverage with an enterprise focus; establishing a commitment to invest in and enhance our platform; and aligning our financial interests with those of our clients. Interactive Marketing Services The market for interactive marketing services is continuously evolving and intensely competitive. In our interactive marketing services business, we face competition from other providers of interactive marketing services, other providers of traditional marketing services and in-house marketing departments, as our prospective interactive marketing services clients evaluate managing their marketing services with internal resources as well as through interactive marketing agencies. As a result, we often compete with in-house solutions promoted and supported by internal marketing departments as well as with service providers that supply one or more interactive marketing services. This group of providers may include the prospective client itself and companies that offer: email management and data aggregation (e.g., Experian, Harte-Hanks and Epsilon); online marketing and design services (digital marketing services agencies such as Omnicom Group, WPP Group, Publicis and the Interpublic Group of Companies); and other interactive marketing services (e.g., Google, LinkShare (owned by Rakuten), TradeDoubler, and ValueClick). Low barriers to entry in the interactive marketing industry may increase the number of competitors our interactive marketing services business may face. International expansion of our interactive marketing services business will increase our exposure to competition with local companies who may have a competitive advantage because of their understanding of the needs of local businesses and consumers. Our interactive marketing services business has competitors with longer operating histories, larger customer bases, greater brand recognition or greater financial, marketing and other resources who are able to devote more resources to technology development and marketing.  We believe that we compete with interactive marketing services competitors primarily on the basis of the following: offering digital marketing solutions that are integrated with our ecommerce services platform, which we believe provides a more strategic, cohesive and optimized approach to growing ecommerce businesses; and providing services that utilize proprietary technology to promote stronger customer engagements designed to increase clients' return on investment. We are subject to regulatory activity and antitrust litigation under competition laws. We receive scrutiny from various government agencies under U.S. and foreign competition laws. Some jurisdictions also provide private rights of action for competitors or consumers to assert claims of anti-competitive conduct. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S. or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Contractual agreements with buyers, sellers, or other companies could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Also, our unilateral business practices could give rise to regulatory action or antitrust litigation. Some regulators, particularly those outside of the U.S., may perceive our business to have so much market power that otherwise uncontroversial business practices could be deemed anticompetitive. For example, in the U.S., we have been sued by a plaintiff representing a putative class of sellers who alleges that we have illegally monopolized a market for online auctions. See “Item 1 - Legal Proceedings” above. In Korea, the national competition authority has investigated allegations that we have engaged in illegal exclusive conduct and rendered a decision against us in October 2010. The case is on appeal through two administrative lawsuits, and a further investigation has now been concluded by the Seoul prosecutor's office, which has chosen not to bring any charges . The competition authorities in Germany and Australia have conducted investigations (now completed) of various actions taken by our businesses. Such claims and investigations, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in significant judgments against us. In several jurisdictions, we have taken actions designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites. Beginning in June 2008, we have required users in the U.K. to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized U.K. website, and since October 2008, we have required sellers on eBay.com to accept one or more accepted payment methods (currently PayPal, credit or debit cards processed through Internet merchant accounts, ProPay, Moneybookers and Paymate) and no longer allow any forms of paper payment, including checks and money orders, to be listed by sellers in the U.S. for most categories of items. While these initiatives are intended to improve and make safer our users' buying experience and/or increase activity on our sites, certain users may be negatively affected by or react negatively to these changes, and may allege that we have (and are abusing) market power. We currently face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to such actions. For example, both the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia recently reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. We may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. Negative reactions to these changes by our users or government authorities could, among other things, force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business, operating results and profitability. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites, including seasonal factors, national events and increased usage of other websites. Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. We would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly, our results of operations historically have experienced seasonal fluctuations because many of our users reduce their activities on our websites with the onset of good weather during the summer months, and on and around national holidays. In particular, our GSI business is highly seasonal, with the fourth quarter holiday season accounting for a disproportionate amount of GSI's net revenues due to consumers increasing their purchases and businesses increasing their advertising to consumers during that period, and any factors that limit or dampen consumer spending during the fourth quarter holiday season could harm our GSI business. In addition, increased usage of social networking or other entertainment websites may decrease the amount of time users spend on our websites, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of our business could harm us. We have expanded our headcount, facilities, and infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that further expansion in certain areas will be required for some of our businesses. This expansion has placed, and we expect it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. The areas that are put under strain by our growth include the following: Customer Account Billing. Our revenues depend on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed on our and our subsidiaries' websites would harm our business and our ability to collect revenue. Customer Service. We continue to focus on providing better and more efficient customer support to our users. We intend to provide an increased level of support (including an increasing amount of telephone support) in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to provide customer support in a cost-effective manner, users of our websites may have negative experiences, current and future revenues could suffer, our costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We must continue to effectively hire, train, and manage new employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating these new employees, or if we are unsuccessful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. This is a special challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any capital investments that we may make will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in the short term. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our tax structure. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient in the event that any taxing authority is successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our positions. In addition, the economic downturn has reduced tax revenues for U.S. federal and state governments, and proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities are being considered at various levels of government. Among the options have been a range of proposals included in the tax and budget policies recommended to the U.S. Congress by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to modify the federal tax rules related to the imposition of U.S. federal corporate income taxes for companies operating in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. If such proposals are enacted into law, this could increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S. states have likewise attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence in order to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas in order to increase the amount of taxable income/loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of these state efforts. If more states were successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that are not present in the state, this could increase of our effective tax rate. Our integrated open commerce platforms, which are open to third-party developers, subject us to additional risks. In 2009, we launched the PayPal Developer Platform to enable third party developers to access a wide variety of PayPal product and programming code specifications and to connect to select PayPal payment application programming interfaces (APIs). We also began providing a software tool kit for building mobile payments applications, and enabling third party developers to access certain APIs with respect to our Marketplaces platforms. In June 2011, we launched X.Commerce, our integrated open commerce platform initiative, which includes our eBay Developer Program and PayPal Developer Network. Assuming that we complete our pending acquisition of Magento, which provides open source ecommerce platforms, it will become part of X.Commerce. There can be no assurance that third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on our open commerce platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. In addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions, which may be contravened by such third party applications. If this were to occur, we would be liable for the regulatory failure and our business could be adversely affected. There are risks associated with our indebtedness. At June 30, 2011, we had $2.5 billion in unsecured indebtedness outstanding, as well as $0.8 billion of available borrowing capacity under our existing unsecured revolving credit facility. We may incur additional indebtedness in the future, including under our revolving credit facility or through public or private offerings of debt securities. Our outstanding indebtedness and any additional indebtedness we incur may have important consequences, including, without limitation, the following: we will be required to use cash to pay the principal of and interest on our indebtedness; our indebtedness and leverage may increase our vulnerability to adverse changes in general economic and industry conditions, as well as to competitive pressure; our ability to obtain additional financing for working capital, capital expenditures and for general corporate and other purposes may be limited; and our flexibility in planning for, or reacting to, changes in our business and our industry may be limited. Our ability to make payments of principal of and interest on our indebtedness depends upon our future performance, which will be subject to general economic conditions, industry cycles and financial, business and other factors affecting our consolidated operations, many of which are beyond our control. If we are unable to generate sufficient cash flow from operations in the future to service our debt, we may be required to, among other things: seek additional financing in the debt or equity markets; refinance or restructure all or a portion of our indebtedness; sell selected assets; reduce or delay planned capital expenditures; or reduce or delay planned operating expenditures. Such measures might not be sufficient to enable us to service our debt. In addition, any such financing, refinancing or sale of assets might not be available on economically favorable terms or at all. We depend on the continued growth of online commerce. The business of selling goods over the Internet, particularly through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns about fraud, privacy, and other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting the Internet as a medium of commerce. In countries such as the U.S., Germany, Korea and the U.K., where our services and online commerce generally have been available for some time and the level of market penetration of our services is high, acquiring new users for our services may be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. Moreover, the growth rates of Internet users is slowing in many countries where we have a significant presence. In order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods and may prefer Internet analogues to such traditional retail means to our offerings, such as the retailer's own website. If these consumers prove to be less active than our earlier users due to lower levels of willingness to use the Internet for communications or commerce for any reason, including lack of access to high-speed communications equipment, congestion of traffic on the Internet, Internet outages or delays, disruptions or other damage to users' computers and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely impacted. Our businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet. Internet service providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge us or our users additional fees for our offerings. Our customers rely on access to the Internet to use our products and services. In many cases that access is provided by companies that compete with at least some of our offerings, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and large Internet service providers. Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of customers' use of our offerings by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. In addition, Internet service providers could attempt to charge us each time our customers use our offerings. Worldwide, a number of companies have announced plans to take such actions or are selling products designed to facilitate such actions. The United States Federal Communications Commission enacted rules on December 21, 2010 (Preserving the Open Internet Broadband Industry Practices [FCC-10-201] ) establishing baseline restrictions that would regulate the ability of Internet access companies to interfere with Internet traffic transported over wired and wireless networks. These FCC rules are likely to be reviewed by the Federal courts in 2011. Pending greater regulatory and judicial clarity, interference with our offerings or higher charges for access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers, could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth. Our business depends on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our services will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” malware and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have been the targets of such programs. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services, which could adversely impact our business. We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately. We regard the protection of our intellectual property, including our trademarks (particularly those covering the eBay and PayPal names), patents, copyrights, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including land and buildings related to our operations. We have little experience in managing real property. Ownership of this property subjects us to risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; disruptions to our operations resulting from possible natural disasters, interruptions in utilities and similar events; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; and possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock or take control of our board of directors. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined by Delaware law) for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control.",0.997536686859,0.807637906648
27,1065088, EBAY , 2010-07-23 ,2010,2," Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may adversely affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may decline. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include the following: general economic conditions, including the possibility of a prolonged period of limited economic growth in the U.S. and a worldwide economic slowdown; disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide; adverse effects of the ongoing financial crisis in Europe; contractions or limited growth in consumer spending or consumer credit; and adverse economic conditions that may be specific to the Internet, ecommerce and payments industries; our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users, and encourage existing users to list items for sale, purchase items through our websites, or use our payment services, especially when consumer spending has contracted; the primary and secondary effects of previously announced and possible future changes to our pricing, products and policies, including, among other changes: a reduced emphasis on upfront fees (e.g., insertion fees for listings) and corresponding increases in success-based fees (e.g., final value fees for sold items); the discontinuation of certain optional seller listing features and loss of associated revenues; new algorithms for determining which listings appear at the top of searches; tighter seller standards, which may restrict some sellers from selling on our websites even if they have been able to do so historically; restrictions or holds on payments made to certain sellers or in connection with certain categories of higher-risk transactions; incentives and rewards for top sellers, including pricing discounts; increased protection for buyers; lower insertion fees for, and extended duration of, listings of fixed-price items; limits on sellers’ shipping and handling charges for certain categories of items (e.g., media); requiring sellers to accept at least one approved payment method (and restricting sellers from referencing non-permitted payment methods, including paper forms of payment such as checks and money orders), on eBay.com in the U.S. for most categories of items and other restrictive payment policies on international sites; changes intended to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency, including, among others, the expansion of buyer incentives and loyalty programs, requiring sellers to provide additional key information intended to set buyer expectations and help reduce seller costs, changes to performance standards and/or rewards for sellers (including the creation of a new top-rated seller status and accounting for cases filed through the eBay and PayPal buyer protection programs in evaluating seller performance); changes to the dispute resolution process (including directing eBay buyers to resolve disputes with sellers through eBay instead of through PayPal); the adoption of a single fixed price format, which includes making listings previously available under our store inventory format accessible through our search algorithms, and changes to our fee structure, including new standard fees and, for a monthly subscription fee, eBay Stores packages with discounted fees; our ability to manage the costs of our user protection programs; the volume, velocity, size, timing, monetization, and completion rates of transactions using our websites or technology; regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our businesses or our users, including the injunction related to certain cosmetic and perfume brands (see “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings” above); our ability to improve the quality of the user experience on our websites (including our customer support in the event of a problem) in light of the improved quality generally of the user experience offered by competitive Internet merchants; our ability to reduce the loss of active buyers and sellers and increase activity of the users of our Marketplaces business, especially with respect to our top buyers and sellers, and especially in the U.S., Germany and the U.K.; changes to our use of advertising on our sites, including changes in ad placement; our ability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that we acquire, including new needs to manage credit risks and bad debts following our acquisition of Bill Me Later in November 2008 and to manage competing marketplaces in Korea following our acquisition of Gmarket in June 2009; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions using our websites or technology and the effect of any changes in our practices and policies designed to foster improved confidence; new laws or regulations, or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, that impose liability on us for actions of our users or otherwise harm our business models or restrict the Internet, ecommerce, online payments or online advertising; our ability to meet existing and new regulatory requirements as we expand the range and geographical scope of our services, especially for our payment and credit businesses; the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of new sites, services, products and functionality; our ability to manage the transaction loss rate on eBay and in our Payments business; our ability to manage funding costs and losses associated with our Bill Me Later business; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure; the costs and results of litigation that involves us; our ability to develop product enhancements, programs, and features at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner; our ability to upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure, and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to improve our websites at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7 operations; technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our websites or services provided to us or our users by third parties; our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose services are required for our operations, such as credit card networks and banks; the cost and availability of online and traditional advertising, and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective manner and to retain key employees; the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and other parties with which we have commercial relations; continued consumer acceptance of the Internet as a medium for ecommerce and payments in the face of increasing publicity about fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, malware and other dangers of the Internet; and macroeconomic and geopolitical events affecting commerce generally. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. We invest heavily in marketing and promotion, customer support, protection programs, technology and further development of the operating infrastructure for our core and non-core operations. Some of this investment entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. Growth rates of our Marketplaces businesses in some of our most established markets have been slower than that for ecommerce generally and have declined in certain periods. Despite our efforts to stem this loss of market share in these and other markets, we may not be successful. As our growth rates in established markets slow, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing users, especially our top buyers and sellers, active and increasing their activity level on our websites in order to continue to grow our business. In addition, our Marketplaces business is facing increased competitive pressure. In particular, the competitive norm for, and the expected level of service from, Internet ecommerce websites has significantly increased, due to, for example, improved user experience, greater ease of buying goods, lower (or no) shipping costs, faster shipping times and more favorable return policies. If we are unable to change our services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce marketplace, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher service levels (some of which depend on services provided by sellers on our platforms), our business will suffer. We have announced changes to our Marketplaces business intended to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency. For example, in the U.S. and the U.K., we have begun testing the efficacy of requesting that PayPal hold new seller funds in certain instances. Some of the changes that we have announced to date have been controversial with, and led to dissatisfaction among, our sellers, and additional changes that we announce in the future may also be negatively received by some of our sellers. This may not only impact the supply of items listed on our websites, but because many sellers also buy from our sites, it may adversely impact demand as well. Given the number of recent changes that we have made to our policies and pricing, it may take our sellers some time to fully assess and adjust to these changes, and sellers may elect to reduce volume while making such assessments and adjustments or in response to these changes. If any of these changes cause sellers to move their business (in whole or in part) away from our websites or otherwise fail to improve gross merchandise volume or the number of successful listings, our operating results and profitability will be harmed. We believe that the mix of sales under our traditional auction-style listing format and fixed-price listing format will continue to shift towards our fixed-price format. Accordingly, we have eliminated some of the features related to our traditional auction-style format and expect others will become less meaningful to, and used less frequently by, our sellers, which would result in a corresponding decrease in revenues from such features. In addition, we expect that the costs associated with our seller discount programs will increase as more sellers will become eligible for such discounts. In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions originate on the eBay platform, declines in growth rates in major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal’s growth. The expected future growth of our PayPal, StubHub, and other lower margin businesses may also cause downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms. The current economic downturn could harm our business. Our Marketplaces and Payments businesses are dependent on consumer purchases. The current economic downturn has resulted in reduced buyer demand and reduced selling prices and may reduce the volume of purchases on our Marketplaces platforms and the volume of transactions paid for using our PayPal payment service, all of which would adversely affect our business. In addition, the economic downturn has adversely affected our advertising revenues and may continue to require us to increase our reserves for bad debt and transaction losses. Continuing poor economic conditions will likely continue or exacerbate these trends. In the event of the bankruptcy of a merchant that sells goods or services in advance of the date of their delivery or use (such as airline, cruise or concert tickets), PayPal could be liable to the buyers of such goods or services either through its buyer protection program or through chargebacks. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Because we conduct the majority of our business outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or if exposure reports are delayed. PayPal also holds some corporate and customer funds in non-U.S. currencies, and thus its financial results are affected by the translation of these non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses and net income. Similarly, our translation of foreign currency denominated transactions will result in lower net revenues, operating expenses and net income if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, as happened in the first half of 2010. Net revenues in the six months ended June 30, 2010 were positively impacted by foreign currency translation of $80.5 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating income for the six months ended June 30, 2010 was positively impacted by foreign currency translation of $37.8 million compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. As exchange rates vary, net revenues and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, British pound, Korean won, Australian dollar or Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced as a result of these translation adjustments. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to perfectly predict or completely eliminate the effects of this exposure. In addition, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar, and the Canadian dollar, cross-border trade related to purchases of dollar-denominated goods by non-U.S. purchasers will likely decrease, and that decrease will likely not be offset by a corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies, adversely affecting our business. In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. For example, relatively low interest rates have continued to limit our investment income, including income we earn on PayPal customer balances, which in turn has materially lowered our net interest income. Bill Me Later’s operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender. We acquired Bill Me Later, a company that facilitates credit services by lending banks, in November 2008. Bill Me Later is neither a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state. Accordingly, Bill Me Later must rely on a bank or licensed lender to issue the Bill Me Later credit products and extend credit to customers in order to offer the Bill Me Later service. Currently, when a consumer makes a purchase using a Bill Me Later credit product issued by CIT Bank, CIT Bank extends credit to the consumer, funds the consumer loan at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. Bill Me Later subsequently purchases the receivable related to the consumer loan extended by CIT Bank. Although CIT Bank continues to own each customer account, Bill Me Later owns the related receivable and is responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. We are currently in the process of transitioning from CIT Bank to a different chartered financial institution, which will become the issuer of the Bill Me Later credit products. If we are unable to complete this transition by September 30, 2010, we may face interruption in the Bill Me Later service. Any termination or interruption of ability of CIT Bank to lend (or the ability of the issuing bank replacing CIT Bank, once the transition is completed) could result in Bill Me Later being unable to originate any new transactions. Under those circumstances, we would be required to either reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or to obtain our own bank charter, which would be a time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to a number of additional laws and regulations. A lawsuit has been filed against Bill Me Later in the U.S. District Court for the Northern District of California, alleging that in its relationship with CIT Bank, Bill Me Later is acting as the true lender to customers in violation of various California laws, including the state’s usury law. We believe that these allegations are without merit and intend to defend ourselves vigorously. However, this area of law is uncertain and if the lawsuit is successful, Bill Me Later may be required to change its methods of operations, pay substantial damages and reduce some of its charges and fees, which would likely adversely affect our business. If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices. While PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send payments from 190 markets, PayPal only allows customers in 66 of those markets (including the U.S.) to receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. These limitations may affect PayPal’s ability to grow in these markets. Of the 190 markets whose residents can use the PayPal service, 31 (27 countries plus four French overseas departments) are members of the European Union (EU). Since 2007, PayPal has provided localized versions of its service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe) S.A.R.L. et Cie, SCA, a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg. Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks. PayPal has limited experience in operating as a bank, and any fines or other enforcement actions imposed by the Luxembourg regulator could adversely affect PayPal’s business. PayPal (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries through an expedited “passport” notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the “passport” notice process in all EU member countries. The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that will apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. Any such actions by these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, PayPal’s plans for expanding its business in EU countries. In addition, the EU Payments Service Directive, which established a new regulatory regime for payment services providers, formally took effect in November 2009. The interpretation of regulations implementing the EU Payments Service Directive remains uncertain. In Australia, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Australia Pty. Ltd., which is licensed by the Australian Prudential Regulatory Authority as a purchased payment facility provider, which is a type of authorized depository institution. Accordingly, PayPal Australia is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Australian depository institutions. In China, PayPal is affiliated with Shanghai Wangfuyi Information Technology Ltd., which is licensed as an Internet Content Provider and operates a payments service only for Chinese customers and only for transactions denominated in Chinese currency. The People’s Bank of China (PBOC) has recently enacted regulations to establish a new type of license, called a Payment Settlement Organization (PSO) license, which will be required for non-bank payment services. The PBOC regulations leave unclear whether a foreign-owned company such as PayPal can control or invest in a Payment Settlement Organization, and whether Wangfuyi would be eligible to obtain a PSO license. To date, PayPal has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter in 42 U.S. states and territories and interpretations in seven states that licensing is not required under their existing statutes. The remaining U.S. state and territories do not currently regulate money transmitters. As a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to restrictions on its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. If PayPal were found to be in violation of money services laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to liability, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change its business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on PayPal. Any change to PayPal’s business practices that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease the velocity of trade on eBay, which would further harm our business. In markets other than the U.S., the EU, Australia and the China domestic business, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Private Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore. In many of these markets, it is not clear whether PayPal’s Singapore-based service is subject to Singaporean law or, if it were subject to local laws, whether such local law would require a payment processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial institution or otherwise. In such markets, the business may rely on partnerships with local banks to process payments and conduct foreign exchange in local currency. Local regulators who do not have jurisdiction over Singapore-based PayPal Private Ltd. may use their local regulatory power to interfere with, slow or halt payments to local merchants conducted through the local banking partner. Such regulatory actions impacting local banking partner arrangements could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of PayPal services in that market. The Reserve Bank of India has asserted that PayPal’s offering of payment services to customers outside of India to send personal, non-commercial payments to recipients in India requires a license from the Reserve Bank, and has also asserted that PayPal cannot hold balances on behalf of Indian customers, even if those balances derive from export transactions, are held outside of India and are not denominated in Indian rupees. The Reserve Bank directed the Indian affiliate of PayPal’s processing bank to suspend all withdrawals to the Indian bank accounts of PayPal customers for both personal and business customers for a period of time and may again impose such a suspension if it is not satisfied with PayPal’s corrective actions. PayPal has suspended personal non-commercial payments to and from Indian accounts, but PayPal could be subject to fines from the Reserve Bank, and PayPal’s prospects for future business in India, both cross-border and domestic, could be materially and adversely affected. Even if PayPal is not currently required to be licensed in some jurisdictions, future localization or targeted marketing of PayPal’s service in those countries, or expansion of the financial products offered by PayPal in new jurisdictions (either alone, through a commercial alliance or through an acquisition), could subject PayPal to additional licensure requirements, laws and regulations and increased regulatory scrutiny, any of which may harm PayPal’s business. These factors could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of its products. Delay or failure to receive such a license or regulatory approval could require PayPal to change its business practices or features in ways that would adversely affect PayPal’s international expansion plans, and could require PayPal to suspend providing products and services to customers in one or more countries. PayPal is also subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. Although PayPal has implemented a program to comply with these laws and regulations, any errors or failure to comply with federal, state or foreign money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties, and forfeiture of significant assets. In the United States, PayPal is subject to regulations that require it to report suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more, and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. The interpretation of suspicious activities in this context is uncertain. Future regulations under the USA PATRIOT Act may require PayPal to revise the procedures it uses to verify the identity of its customers and to monitor international transactions more closely. Several countries in which PayPal is regulated, including Australia, Luxembourg and Singapore, have recently implemented new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and PayPal has had to make changes to its procedures in response. In November 2009, the Australian anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing regulator (AUSTRAC) accepted an enforceable undertaking from PayPal Australia pursuant to which PayPal Australia agreed, among other things, to appoint an independent auditor to assess PayPal Australia’s anti-money laundering compliance policies and procedures and issue a report by July 31, 2010 identifying any unremediated deficiencies accompanied by a plan by PayPal to remedy any such deficiencies. AUSTRAC had expressed concern that PayPal Australia does not have systems and controls in place to manage adequately its money laundering and terrorist financing risk. PayPal expects that in connection with the enforceable undertaking, it will have to invest in improvements to its anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing systems, policies and operations. In addition, PayPal Australia could be required to obtain additional information from customers, verify that information, and monitor its customers’ activities more closely. As PayPal continues to localize its services in additional jurisdictions, PayPal could be required to meet standards similar to those in Australia. These requirements could impose significant costs on PayPal, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the attractiveness of its products. Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date, PayPal has taken actions as though its service is subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board. As a result, among other things, PayPal provides advance disclosure of changes to its service, follows specified error resolution procedures and reimburses consumers for losses from certain transactions not authorized by the consumer. PayPal seeks to pass most of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its PayPal account. Additionally, even technical violations of these laws can result in penalties of up to $1,000 for each non-compliant transaction, or up to $500,000 per violation in any class action. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. eBay Inc. and PayPal, Inc.; and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) have been filed in the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations related to violations of aspects of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E and/or allege that PayPal improperly held user’s funds or otherwise improperly limited user’s accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal’s practices among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of the Electronic Fund Transfer Act, Regulation E or violations of other laws relating to PayPal’s practices can expose PayPal to significant liability. Changes to PayPal’s practices that may result from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend product resources, which could cause delay to other planned product improvements, which would further harm our business. Our Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to a variety of laws and regulations. Although Bill Me Later does not originate loans, one or more jurisdictions may conclude that Bill Me Later is a lender or money transmitter or loan broker, which could subject us to liability or regulation in one or more jurisdictions. Additionally, federal regulators could mandate changes to the relationship between Bill Me Later and the issuing bank of the Bill Me Later credit products. Any termination or interruption of the issuing bank’s lending services to consumers could result in an interruption of Bill Me Later services, as described under the caption “Bill Me Later’s operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above. Also, effective in three stages in February 2010, July 2010 and August 2010, certain provisions of the Credit Card Accountability Responsibility and Disclosure Act of 2009, or the CARD Act, and certain changes to Regulation Z of the U.S. Federal Reserve Board require the issuing bank and Bill Me Later to make fundamental changes to many of the practices currently used with respect to Bill Me Later consumer accounts, including marketing, pricing (including finance charges, promotional programs and late fees assessed on receivables purchased by Bill Me Later from the bank) and billing, which could in turn adversely affect Bill Me Later’s business. The listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may harm our business. We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our service by our users infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual property rights. See “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings” above. Although we have sought to work actively with the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners have been active in asserting their purported rights against online companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights have resulted in threats of litigation and actual litigation against us from time to time by rights owners, including litigation brought by luxury brand owners such as Tiffany & Co. in the U.S., Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany, Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France and L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. The plaintiffs in these cases seek to hold eBay liable for alleged counterfeit items listed on our sites by third parties, for “tester” and other consumer products labeled in a manner to prevent resale and for unboxed and other allegedly nonconforming products listed on our sites by third parties, for the alleged misuse of trademarks or copyrights in listings or otherwise on our sites, or in connection with paid search advertisements, or for alleged violations of selective distribution channel laws or parallel import laws for listings of authentic items, or for alleged non-compliance with consumer protection laws. Such plaintiffs seek, among other things, injunctive relief and damages. In the aggregate, these suits could result in significant damage awards and injunctions that could adversely affect our business. These and similar suits may force us to modify our business practices, which could lower our revenue, increase our costs or make our websites less convenient to our customers. Any such results could materially harm our business. In addition to litigation from rights owners, we may be subject to regulatory, civil or criminal proceedings and penalties if governmental authorities believe we have aided in the sale of counterfeit goods. While we have had some early success in defending against such litigation, more recent cases have been based, at least in part, on different legal theories than those of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in defending against such litigation. Plaintiffs in recent cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe harbors under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a hosting provider in the European Union under the Electronic Commerce Directive because of the alleged active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and that, whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should be found liable because we supposedly have not adequately removed listings that are counterfeit or are authentic but allegedly violate trademark law or effectively suspended users who have created such listings. We are constantly seeking to improve and modify our efforts to eliminate counterfeit and pirated items. These improvements are in response to ongoing business initiatives designed to reduce bad buyer experiences and improve customer satisfaction as well as in response to new patterns we are seeing among counterfeiters and others committing fraud on our users. Notwithstanding these efforts, we believe that the legal climate, especially in Europe, is becoming more adverse to our positions, which may require us to take actions which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, or make our websites less convenient to our customers, which may materially harm our business. In addition, a public perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on our sites, even if factually incorrect, could damage our reputation and our business. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may also seek to bring legal action against entities that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the use of PayPal’s payment services in a transaction involving the sale of infringing items, including on our websites, our business could be harmed. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties’ patents. Some of these ongoing suits are described under the heading “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings” above. We are a defendant in other patent suits and we have been notified of several other potential patent disputes, and expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our Marketplaces and Payments segments as our services expand in scope and complexity. These claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Use of our services for illegal purposes could harm our business. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for the activities of their users on their service is often challenged in the U.S. and internationally. We may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or unlawful services, or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. We have been subject to several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In December 2004, an executive of Baazee.com, our Indian subsidiary, was arrested in connection with a user’s listing of a pornographic video clip on that website. We continue to contest the charges related to this arrest. Similarly, one of our Korean subsidiaries (IAC) and one of its employees were found criminally liable for listings (which occurred prior to our acquisition) on IAC’s website. The German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may have a duty to take reasonable measures to prevent prohibited DVDs from being sold on our site to minors and that competitors may be able to enforce this duty. In a number of circumstances, third parties, including government regulators and law enforcement officials, have alleged that our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws, including antiscalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, distance selling laws and the sale of items outside of the U.S. that are regulated by U.S. export controls. Although we have prohibited the listing of illegal and stolen goods and certain high-risk items and implemented other protective measures, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, any of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our business. Certain manufacturers and large retailers have sought new U.S. federal and state legislation regarding stolen goods that could limit our ability to allow sellers to use our sites without confirming the source of, and their legal rights to sell, the underlying goods. In addition, from time to time we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of illegal goods and stolen goods using our services. This negative publicity could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names and make users reluctant to use our services. PayPal’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software and other copyrighted or trademarked goods, money laundering, terrorist financing, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, and online securities fraud. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, illegal activities could still be funded using PayPal. Any resulting claims or liabilities could harm our business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our service. As discussed above with respect to certain specific issues, the law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services is often unsettled. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability under a number of these theories have been brought against us, as well as other online service companies. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our service features a Feedback Forum, which includes information from users regarding other users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could be made in the future against us for not removing content posted in the Feedback Forum. Furthermore, several court decisions arguably have narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers like us under the Communications Decency Act. For example, the Ninth Circuit has held that certain immunity provisions under the Communications Decency Act might not apply to the extent that a website owner materially contributes to the development of unlawful content on its website. As our websites evolve, challenges to the applicability of these immunities can be expected to continue. In addition, the Paris Court of Commerce has ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that applicable laws protecting passive internet “hosts” from liability are inapplicable to eBay given that the content in question was provided by users under eBay’s control and authority. This trend, if continued, may increase our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties. A large number of transactions occur on our websites on a daily basis. Government regulators have received a significant number of consumer complaints about both eBay and PayPal, which, while small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been contacted by various foreign and domestic governmental regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure practices from the Federal Trade Commission and regarding these and other business practices from the attorneys general of a number of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase educational messaging to users about funding choices, and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. We currently face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to actions that we have taken that are designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites, most notably by requiring PayPal to be offered and/or used for certain high-risk transactions or by certain sellers in certain jurisdictions, and we may face similar inquires from other government regulators in the future. For example, both the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia recently reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. Similarly, Bill Me Later has from time to time received customer complaints that could result in investigations into Bill Me Later’s business practices by state or federal regulators. As a result of the recent credit crisis, some new laws have been passed, and we expect additional new laws and regulations to be adopted that impose, among other requirements, additional obligations and restrictions on providers of credit. We are likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, including under existing or new credit laws or regulations, which may lead to action against us. We have responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures, operating procedures and disclosures. If one or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties, or forced to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes. From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our business has expanded and our company has grown larger. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the courts and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable. Any claims or regulatory actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, damage awards, injunctive relief, or increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or settlement, require us to change our business practices in expensive ways, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate. In April 2009, we announced plans to change the dispute resolution process (which we refer to as “resolutions”) for transactions on eBay.com and eBay.co.uk in which a buyer claims the item was not received or the item they received was different from that described in the listing. We implemented these plans in the fourth quarter of 2009 and the first quarter of 2010. Previously, buyers with an issue on our eBay.com and eBay.co.uk platform were generally required to contact the seller directly and, if they were unable to resolve the issue, to start the resolutions process online via PayPal’s resolution center. We have transitioned to a new, on-eBay resolutions process provided by eBay customer support, which now serves as the primary entry point for buyers on eBay.com and eBay.co.uk who are unable to resolve their disputes with eBay sellers. Among other things, the new resolutions process provides that eBay will generally reimburse the buyer for the full amount of an item’s purchase price (including original shipping costs), in cases where the item was not received or the item they received was different from that described in the listing, and the seller does not provide adequate resolution to the buyer. eBay then attempts to recoup amounts paid to the buyer from the seller’s PayPal accounts or other payment methods. Our costs associated with resolutions have increased as a result of these changes to our resolutions policies and process. These changes, together with any further changes that we may make to our resolutions process in the future, may be negatively received by, and lead to dissatisfaction on the part of, some of our sellers. These changes may also result in an increase in buyer fraud and associated transaction losses. In addition, eBay does not have the same level of rights of recoupment against sellers as PayPal, which may result in higher costs to operate the program. Failure to deal effectively with bad transactions and customer disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our business. Over the last several years, we have enhanced the buyer and seller protections offered by PayPal in certain eBay marketplaces, and in certain countries for transactions outside of eBay marketplaces. These changes to PayPal’s buyer and seller protection program could result in future increases and fluctuations in our Payments transaction loss rate. For the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and six months ended June 30, 2010, our Payments transaction losses (including both direct losses and buyer protection payouts) totaled $180.9 million and $73.6 million, representing 0.25% and 0.17% of our net total payment volume in the respective periods. We have also recently changed the dispute resolution process for transactions on eBay.com and eBay.co.uk, as described in greater detail above under the caption “Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate” and which could result in an increase in our combined eBay and PayPal transaction losses. PayPal’s highly automated and liquid payment service makes PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using stolen credit card or bank account numbers can potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal’s current and former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone out of business or significantly restricted their businesses largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent PayPal’s anti-fraud systems using increasingly sophisticated methods. In addition, PayPal’s service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches. Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud. PayPal incurs substantial losses from merchant fraud, including claims from customers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant’s description. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from erroneous transmissions, and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. In addition to the direct costs of such losses, if they are related to credit card transactions and become excessive, they could potentially result in PayPal losing the right to accept credit cards for payment, which would materially and adversely affect our business. In addition, if PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and result in corresponding decreases in our net total payment volume, in which case our business would further suffer. Bill Me Later is similarly subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, users of the Bill Me Later service and third parties handling its user information, which could increase our exposure to transaction losses and adversely affect Bill Me Later’s business. Our Payments business has taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business will suffer. eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from users who may not have received the goods that they had purchased. In some cases individuals have been arrested and convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay also receives complaints from sellers who have not received payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the item, or because the buyer bid on the item maliciously in order to harm either the seller or eBay. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While eBay can, in some cases, suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through our limited buyer protection programs. The impact of changes to our dispute resolutions program implemented in 2009 is discussed in more detail above under the caption “Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate.” Our limited eBay and PayPal buyer protection programs represent the means by which we compensate users who believe that they have been defrauded, have not received the item that they purchased, or have received an item different than what was described. However, users who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their credit card company or bank, which in turn will seek reimbursement from PayPal. eBay also periodically receives complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is only beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for third-party actions could be costly and time consuming for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our Marketplaces and Payments services could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, and diminish the value of our brand names. We believe that negative user experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using our services. Governmental regulators worldwide are also looking at approaches intended to reduce online fraud. Some of the current proposals (e.g., two-factor authentication in France to verify a user’s identity) could increase our costs and require us to change our business practices in ways that would harm our business. Any factors that reduce cross-border trade could harm our business. Cross-border trade has become an increasingly important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border transactions using our websites generally provide higher revenues and gross margins than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. We generally earn higher transaction fees for cross-border transactions involving PayPal, and our Marketplaces business continues to represent a relatively easy way for buyers and sellers to engage in cross-border trade compared with other alternatives. Any factors that result in a net reduction in cross-border trade, including, among other factors, fluctuations in currency exchange rates, the application of specific national or regional laws (e.g., selective distribution channel laws and parallel import laws) to users in other countries, the potential application of laws of multiple jurisdictions (e.g., the jurisdiction of the buyer, the seller, and/or the location of the item being sold), or any other factors that impose restrictions on, or increase the costs of, shipping goods across national borders (including customs enforcement and tariffs) would harm our business. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches. Our businesses involve the storage and transmission of users’ proprietary information, and security breaches could expose us to a risk of loss or misuse of this information, litigation, and potential liability. An increasing number of websites, including several other large internet companies, have recently disclosed breaches of their security, some of which have involved sophisticated and highly targeted attacks on portions of their sites. Because the techniques used to obtain unauthorized access, disable or degrade service, or sabotage systems change frequently and often are not recognized until launched against a target, we may be unable to anticipate these techniques or to implement adequate preventative measures. If an actual or perceived breach of our security occurs, the market perception of the effectiveness of our security measures could be harmed and we could lose users. A party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate our or our users’ proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Any compromise of our security could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws, significant legal and financial exposure, damage to our reputation, and a loss of confidence in our security measures, which could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. PayPal’s users routinely provide credit card and other financial information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in the technology used by us to protect transaction data being breached or compromised. Non-technical means, for example, actions by a suborned employee, can also result in a data breach. Under credit card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of credit card information that we store, or that is stored by PayPal’s direct credit card processing customers, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow credit card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept credit cards, our business would be seriously damaged. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time (most recently involving our StubHub website in early 2010). We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by parties with which we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our users’ personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses or other malware through “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay, PayPal, or a user of one of those businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via email or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” remain a serious problem that may damage our brands, discourage use of our websites, and increase our costs. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users, especially for financial information and for users located outside of the U.S. In addition, as an entity licensed and subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg, PayPal (Europe) S.A.R.L. et Cie, SCA is subject to banking secrecy laws. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions but also to transfers of information between ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our subsidiaries and other parties with which we have commercial relations. New laws in this area have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. In addition, we have and post on our websites our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Our revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our control. We derive significant revenue from advertising on our websites. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such as general changes in the economy and changes in consumer spending, as well as the effectiveness of online advertising versus offline advertising media and the value our websites provide to advertisers relative to other websites. Recent economic conditions have adversely impacted our advertising revenue. In addition, major search engine operators have the ability to change from time to time, at their sole discretion, the rules and search algorithms governing the pricing, availability, and placement of online advertising. Any changes in these rules or search algorithms could materially reduce the value that we derive from online advertising on our websites, either directly or indirectly. For example, retailers pay a fee to Shopping.com for online shoppers directed to their websites by Shopping.com. Rule changes made by search engines in 2008 disrupted traffic to our Shopping.com website, which in turn adversely affected click-through traffic to retailers from our Shopping.com website and associated fee revenue. Furthermore, we have recently changed the placement of ads on our sites, which may reduce the amount we are paid. If we experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to economic, competitive, technological or other factors, including the worldwide economic slowdown, a reduction in revenue due to the renegotiation of the terms of our contracts with major advertising companies such as Yahoo!, Google and Microsoft, changes in our ad placement, or if we are unable to provide value to our advertisers, our business and financial results would suffer. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require a continued focus on active marketing efforts across all of our brands. We will need to continue to spend substantial amounts of money on, and devote substantial resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Since 2005, we have significantly increased the number of brands we are supporting, adding Shopping.com, our classified websites (e.g., eBay Classifieds, Kijiji, Marktplaats and Den Blå Avis), StubHub, Bill Me Later and Gmarket, among others. Each of these brands requires its own resources, increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. Also, major search engine operators that we use to advertise our brands have frequently-changing rules that govern their pricing, availability and placement of online advertisement (e.g., paid search, keywords), and changes to these rules could negatively affect our use of online advertising to promote our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business would be harmed. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy apply to online businesses such as ours. The majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European Union’s Directives on Distance Selling and Electronic Commerce, are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. Furthermore, as our activities and the types of goods and services listed on our websites expand, including through acquisitions such as Bill Me Later and StubHub, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to licensure or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions (e.g., the sale of real estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats and automobiles). Recent financial and political events may increase the level of regulatory scrutiny on large companies in general and financial services companies in particular. Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing businesses that perceive our business model to be a threat to their business to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators. These established businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. In particular, these established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. In addition, regulatory agencies may view matters or interpret laws and regulations differently than they have in the past. Changing the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Over the last few years some large retailers and their trade associations have sought legislation in a number of states and the U.S. Congress that would make eBay liable for the sale of stolen property or would ban certain categories of goods from sale on our platform, including gift cards and health and beauty products. No such legislation has passed. Nonetheless, the proponents continue to seek passage of such legislation, and if any of these laws are adopted they could harm our business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, where our headquarters are located, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions, including France, have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to impose such regulations upon us or our users. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing and such attempted enforcements could harm our business. In France, we have been sued by Conseil des Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority. The authority alleges that sales on our French website constitute illegal auctions that cannot be performed without its consent. Although we have won this lawsuit in the lower court, this decision is being appealed. A lawsuit alleging similar claims has been brought against us by two associations of French antique dealers. We intend to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. However, this and other regulatory and licensure claims could result in costly litigation and, if successful, could require us to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues (for example, by forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items for some locations). We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, and we facilitate sales of goods to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, we were found liable in France, under French law in the Louis Vuitton Malletier litigation for transactions on our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers or sellers (see “Item 1— Legal Proceedings” above). Laws regulating Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the U.S. may be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, competitors, users and other third parties. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us. Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services, in addition to the significant costs we may incur in defending against such actions. In light of the global financial crisis, U.S. federal lawmakers have enacted legislation overhauling the federal government’s oversight of consumer financial products and systemic risk in the U.S. financial system. Although the full effect of the new legislation will be dependent on regulations to be adopted by a number of different agencies, we expect the general effect of the new law will be to require PayPal and Bill Me Later to make additional disclosures to their users and to impose new restrictions on certain of their activities. These new obligations will increase our costs and may result in increased litigation, the need to make expensive product changes and other adverse impacts on our business. Changes to credit card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm PayPal’s business. PayPal does not belong to or directly access credit card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard. As a result, PayPal must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions, and must pay fees for this service. From time to time, credit card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. PayPal’s credit card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to PayPal as well as increase their own fees for processing. Changes in interchange fees and assessments could increase PayPal’s operating costs and reduce its profit margins. In addition, in some markets, governments have required Visa and MasterCard to reduce interchange fees, or have opened investigations as to whether Visa or MasterCard’s interchange fees and practices violate antitrust law. In the United States, the recently-enacted financial reform law authorizes the Federal Reserve Board to regulate debit card interchange rates. Any material reduction in credit or debit card interchange rates in the United States or other markets could jeopardize PayPal’s competitive position against traditional credit and debit card processors. PayPal is also required by its processors to comply with credit card network operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by credit card networks as a result of any rule violations by PayPal or PayPal’s customers. The credit card networks set and interpret the credit card rules. Credit card networks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow. As a result, PayPal could lose its ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In addition, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and our business would further suffer. PayPal is required to comply with credit card networks’ special operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal and its credit card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchant customers in order to comply with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in fines, the amount of which would be within the credit card networks’ discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines from credit card networks if it fails to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. For “high risk” merchants, PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using PayPal or register such merchants with credit card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has incurred fines from its credit card processors relating to PayPal’s failure to detect the use of its service by “high risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has not been material, but any additional fines in the future would likely be for larger amounts, could become material, and could result in a termination of PayPal’s ability to accept credit cards or changes in PayPal’s process for registering new customers, which would seriously damage PayPal’s business. Changes in PayPal’s funding mix could adversely affect PayPal’s results. PayPal pays significant transaction fees when customers fund payment transactions using credit cards, lower payments when customers fund payments with debit cards, nominal fees when customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or use buyer credit issued by GE Money Bank. As of October 2009, eligible U.S. customers may also fund payment transactions through a loan originated by an unaffiliated lender as part of the Bill Me Later service, and PayPal will incur no fees for such transactions. Customers fund a significant portion of PayPal’s payment volume using credit cards, and PayPal’s financial success will remain highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its senders fund payments using credit cards. Senders may prefer funding using credit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of reasons, including the ability to dispute and reverse charges directly with their credit card provider if merchandise is not delivered or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles, cash rebates, or other incentives offered by credit card issuers, the ability to defer payment, or a reluctance to provide bank account information to PayPal. In addition, some of PayPal’s offerings, including the ability to make a limited number of payments without opening an account, have a higher rate of credit card funding than PayPal’s basic product offering. PayPal’s failure to manage customer funds properly would harm its business. PayPal’s ability to manage and account accurately for customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and limited management experience in managing these internal controls. As PayPal’s business continues to grow, it must strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal’s success requires significant public confidence in its ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to manage customer funds accurately could severely diminish customer use of PayPal’s products. Our decision to launch our PayPal Developer Platform, which is open to third-party developers, subjects us to new risks. In 2009, we launched the PayPal Developer Platform to enable third party developers to access a wide variety of PayPal product and programming code specifications and to connect to select PayPal payment application programming interfaces (APIs). We also began providing a software tool kit for building mobile payments applications. In addition, we provide third party developers with access to certain APIs with respect to our Marketplaces platforms. There is no assurance that third-party developers will develop and maintain applications and services on PayPal’s platforms on a timely basis or at all, and a number of factors could cause such third-party developers to curtail or stop development for our platforms. In addition, our business is subject to many regulatory restrictions, which may be contravened by such third party applications. If this were to occur, we would be liable for the regulatory failure and our business could be adversely affected. System failures could harm our business. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our websites will reduce our current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and profits, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to 22 hours. In November 2009, technical systems issues resulted in eBay.com users being unable to search for listed items for a period of several hours. Our PayPal website has suffered intermittent unavailability for periods as long as five days, most recently for approximately five hours in August 2009. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical for PayPal, especially as it seeks to expand its Merchant Services business. Because PayPal is a regulated financial entity, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to fines, penalties, or mandatory changes to PayPal’s business practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers’ businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time-consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, cyber attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events or disruptions. Some of our systems, including our Shopping.com website and the systems related to the Bill Me Later business, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could cause system interruptions, delays, and loss of critical data, and result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. There are many risks associated with our international operations. Our international expansion has been rapid and our international business, especially in Germany, Korea and the U.K., has also become critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 54% of our net revenues in both the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and the six months ended June 30, 2010. Expansion into international markets requires management attention and resources and requires us to localize our services to conform to local cultures, standards and policies. The commercial, Internet, and transportation infrastructure in lesser-developed countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our traditional Marketplaces business model. In many countries, we compete with local companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew our eBay marketplace offering from the Japanese market, and in 2007 we contributed our business in China to a joint venture with a local Chinese company. Even if we are successful in developing new markets, we often expect the costs of operating new sites to exceed our net revenues from those sites for at least 12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand internationally, including through the expansion of PayPal, Shopping.com, and our classified businesses, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: strong local competitors; regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet services, auctioneering, professional selling, distance selling, privacy and data protection, banking, and money transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain categories of goods, require product changes, require special licensure, subject us to various taxes, penalties or audits, or limit the transfer of information between us and our affiliates; greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings and other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a result of legal systems that are less developed with respect to the Internet, unique local laws, conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, online trading; laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit or limit foreign ownership of certain businesses; difficulties in integrating with local payment providers, including banks, credit and debit card networks, and electronic fund transfer systems; differing levels of retail distribution, shipping, and Internet infrastructures; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; challenges associated with joint venture relationships and minority investments, including dependence on our joint venture partners; difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, and greater problems in collecting accounts receivable; potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation of our fees or of transactions on our websites; higher Internet service provider costs; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; seasonal reductions in business activity; expenses associated with localizing our products, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency; restrictions on the repatriation of funds, foreign currency exchange restrictions, and exchange rate fluctuations; volatility in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or military conditions (e.g., in South Korea relating to its disputes with North Korea); challenges associated with maintaining relationships with local law enforcement and related agencies; and differing intellectual property laws. Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we also could become subject to increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable and repatriating money without adverse tax consequences, and increased risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations is discussed in more detail under the caption “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates,” above. In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product development, customer support and other operations, in regions outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which reduce the anticipated benefits, including cost efficiencies and productivity improvements, associated with providing these functions outside of the U.S. could adversely affect our business. We maintain a portion of Shopping.com’s research and development facilities and personnel in Israel, and in 2008 we acquired Fraud Sciences Ltd., an Israeli company. Political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect those operations. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its neighboring countries remains uncertain. Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed hostilities between Israel and neighboring countries or other entities could make it more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of employees due to military service, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions, joint ventures and strategic investments could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including, most recently, Gmarket in Korea, Bill Me Later in the United States and Den Blå Avis and BilBasen, classified businesses in Denmark. In November 2009, we completed the sale of Skype to an entity (Buyer) owned and organized by an investor group and received, among other things, an equity stake of approximately 30% of the outstanding capital stock of the Buyer. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets, as well as strategic investments and joint ventures. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration, particularly given the number, size and varying scope of our recent acquisitions; declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; in some cases, the need to transition operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms; and liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or all of our acquisitions, or may not realize them in the time frame expected. Future acquisitions or mergers may require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, which could adversely affect our results of operations and dilute the economic and voting rights of our stockholders. In addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. The controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Bill Me Later’s operations expose us to new risks. Risks associated with Bill Me Later’s reliance on an unaffiliated lender are discussed in detail under the caption “Bill Me Later’s operations depend on lending services provided by an unaffiliated lender” above. Bill Me Later relies on third-party merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions using the Bill Me Later service. For the year ended December 31, 2009 and six months ended June 30, 2010, approximately 80% and 70%, respectively, of all transaction volume by dollar amount through the Bill Me Later service was settled through the facilities of a single vendor. Any disruption to these third party payment processing and gateway services would adversely affect the Bill Me Later service. The Bill Me Later service is offered to a wide range of consumers, and the financial success of this business depends on the ability of the issuing bank of the Bill Me Later credit products to manage credit risk related to those products. The lender extends credit using Bill Me Later’s proprietary segmentation and credit scoring algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk for specific customers based on their past purchasing and payment history as well as their credit scores. Based on these performance criteria, the lender may increase lines of credit at the point of sale. These algorithms and techniques may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer due to, among other factors, inaccurate assumptions about a particular consumer or the economic environment. The accuracy of the predictions and the ability of the lender and Bill Me Later to manage credit risk may also be affected by legal or regulatory changes (such as bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations), competitors’ actions, changes in consumer behavior and other factors. The lender may also incorrectly interpret the data produced by these algorithms in setting its credit policies, which may impact Bill Me Later’s financial performance. In addition, the credit crisis and current recession in the U.S. may affect consumer confidence levels and reduce consumers’ ability or willingness to use credit, including the credit extended by the lender to consumers who use the Bill Me Later service, which could impair the growth and profitability of the Bill Me Later business. We anticipate that the volume of loans extended by CIT Bank (and by the replacement licensed financial institution, once the transition is completed) in connection with the Bill Me Later’s service will increase as we begin to enable qualified buyers with a PayPal account to use Bill Me Later as a payment funding option for transactions on eBay.com and on certain merchant websites that accept PayPal. Like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer loans, the Bill Me Later service faces the risk that after Bill Me Later purchases the receivables related to consumer loans, certain account holders will default on their payment obligations, making the receivables uncollectible and creating the risk of potential charge-offs. The rate at which receivables were charged off as uncollectible, or the net charge-off rate, was approximately 10.66% and 9.02% for the fiscal year ended December 31, 2009 and the six months ended June 30, 2010, respectively. The nonpayment rate among Bill Me Later users may increase due to, among other things, worsening economic conditions, such as the current recession in the U.S., and higher unemployment rates. Consumers who miss payments on their loans often fail to repay them, and consumers who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. The age and rate of growth of the receivables related to a consumer loan portfolio also affects the rate of missed payments and loans charged off as uncollectible. Consumers are less likely to miss their payments within the first 12 to 18 months of a loan’s term. Also worsening economic conditions typically result in fewer new loans and with fewer loans, the proportion of new loans will decrease and the rate of missed payments and charge-offs in the portfolio will increase, which has historically been the case with Bill Me Later. We currently fund the purchase of receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts through free cash flow generated from our portfolio of businesses and from our existing credit agreement. Our ability to securitize receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts has been reduced by disruptions in the credit industry generally, and in the securitization markets particularly. If we are unable to fund receivables related to the Bill Me Later business adequately or in a cost-effective manner, the growth and profitability of the Bill Me Later business could be significantly and adversely affected. In addition, Bill Me Later faces other risks similar to those faced by PayPal, including the risk of system failures, security breaches or other loss of customer data, fraud, intellectual property claims, compliance failures, and changes to regulations relating to credit offerings described in these Risk Factors, including under the captions “Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties” and “If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfer, money laundering, counter-terrorist financing, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices.” Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax, and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the adoption and growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of ecommerce. For example, the State of New York has passed legislation that requires any out-of-state seller of tangible personal property to collect and remit New York use tax if the seller engages affiliates above certain financial thresholds in New York to perform certain business promotion activities. Several ecommerce companies are challenging this new law. North Carolina and Rhode Island have also enacted similar laws related to affiliates, and a number of other states appear to be considering similar legislation. The State of Colorado recently enacted new legislation that takes a slightly different approach by imposing a set of use tax collection notice and reporting requirements (but not the actual tax collection responsibility) on certain retailers with no physical presence in Colorado. The law is designed to aid Colorado in collecting use tax from Colorado residents who purchase taxable items from out-of-state retailers. A draft regulation promulgated by the Colorado Department of Revenue would exclude from these reporting obligations businesses that sell $100,000 or less into the state in a calendar year, thus limiting the impact on our sellers. Oklahoma has enacted a similar law. While the new laws in New York, North Carolina, Rhode Island, Oklahoma and Colorado do not specifically apply to our business, the proliferation of such state legislation, particularly as many states seek to expand revenues generated by broader taxes, could adversely affect some of our sellers at some point in the future and indirectly harm our business. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project — an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state, and local governments to require collection and remittance of remote sales tax by out-of-state sellers — H.R. 5660, the Main Street Fairness Act, was recently introduced in the U.S. Congress. The Act would allow states that meet certain simplification and other standards to require out-of-state sellers to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. Sellers meeting an as yet undefined small seller exception will be excluded from the requirements of the Act. This legislation may be considered by the current U.S. Congress as a way to enable states to increase sales tax revenues and help address significant state budgetary shortfalls caused by the economic downturn. The adoption of this Act or similar legislation that lacks a robust small business exemption would result in the imposition of sales taxes and additional costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on our sellers. This would make selling on our websites less attractive for small retailers, and would harm our business. From time to time, some taxing authorities have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes. In May 2008, the City of Chicago notified both eBay and StubHub that they are liable for a city amusement tax on tickets to events in Chicago, irrespective of the location of the buyer or seller, and filed suit to enforce collection of taxes it claims are due. In March 2009, the court ruled that StubHub is not required to collect and remit the city amusement tax. The City of Chicago requested reconsideration of this ruling and StubHub sought clarification of the ruling relative to the remaining counts as well. In August 2009, the court entered a final order dismissing the case against StubHub. In December 2009, the court also dismissed the case against eBay. Appeals in both the StubHub and eBay matters are currently pending. The application of similar existing or future laws could adversely affect our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services over the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. The U.S. federal government’s moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce has been extended through November 2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. One or more states or the federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been discussed in the U.S. Congress, several states, and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if an eBay company was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which eBay operates. In July 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221) was signed into law. This law contains provisions that require companies that provide payments over electronic means to users to report to the Internal Revenue Service (IRS) information on payments received by certain customers. The legislation, effective for payments received after December 31, 2010, will require PayPal and other electronic payments providers, as well as potentially StubHub and similar companies, to report to the IRS on U.S.-based customers who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a year, and to request tax ID numbers from U.S. users and track payments by tax ID number. This requirement may decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. One or more other jurisdictions may also seek to impose tax-collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Imposition of a discriminatory record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Foreign authorities may also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from, or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify eBay’s obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting requirements could harm our users and our business. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which eBay conducts or will conduct business. Our businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet. Internet service providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge us or our users additional fees for our offerings. Our customers rely on access to the Internet to use our products and services. In many cases that access is provided by companies that compete with at least some of our offerings, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and large Internet service providers. Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of customers’ use of our offerings by restricting or prohibiting the use of their infrastructure to support or facilitate our offerings, or by charging increased fees to us or our users to provide our offerings. In addition, Internet service providers could attempt to charge us each time our customers use our offerings. Worldwide, a number of companies have announced plans to take such actions or are selling products designed to facilitate such actions. Interference with our offerings or higher charges for access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers, could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have laws and regulations covering the resale of event tickets. Some jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices above the face value of the tickets or at all, or highly regulate the resale of tickets, and new laws and regulations or changes to existing laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions may be adopted that could limit or inhibit our ability to operate, or our users’ ability to continue to use, our tickets business. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions. Some event organizers and professional sports teams have expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our sites. Suits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such litigation could result in damage awards, could require us to change our business practices in ways that may be harmful to our business, or could otherwise negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business is subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. The recent economic downturn has resulted in a decrease in ticket prices sold on our sites and has negatively impacted revenue and profits. In addition, a work stoppage, strike or lockout by a U.S. professional sports league (e.g., the National Football League or the National Basketball Association) could result in the cancellation of all or a portion of the games in a league’s season, which would harm our tickets business. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies (such as Live Nation Entertainment (formerly Ticketmaster), AEG, Comcast-Spectacor and Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports teams and leagues), ticket brokers, and other online and offline ticket resellers, such as TicketsNow (which is owned by Live Nation Entertainment) and RazorGator. In addition, some ticketing service companies and event organizers have recently begun to issue event tickets through various forms of electronic ticketing systems that are designed to restrict or prohibit the transferability of such event tickets. Ticketing service companies have also begun to use market-based pricing strategies or dynamic pricing to charge much higher prices that they historically have for premium tickets. Besides charging higher prices, these ticketing service companies have also imposed additional restrictions on transferability for these types of tickets, such as requiring customers to pickup these tickets at will-call with the purchasing credit card. To the extent that event tickets issued in this manner cannot be resold on our websites, or to the extent that we are otherwise unable to compete with these competitors, our tickets business would be harmed. We depend on key personnel. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel and our ability to retain and motivate them. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel, we do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies, and some members of our senior management team have fully vested the vast majority of their in-the-money equity incentives. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our businesses all depend on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees whose stock option strike prices are substantially above current market prices. Similarly, decreases in the number of unvested in-the-money stock options held by existing employees, whether because our stock price has declined, options have vested, or because the size of follow-on option grants has declined, may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our users could harm our business. A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our users list items, caching services that make our sites load faster, and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial interest in their success, while in other cases we have none. PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that link PayPal to the credit card and bank clearing networks. Similarly, Bill Me Later relies heavily on third parties to operate its services, including merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. Financial or regulatory issues, labor issues (e.g., strikes or work stoppages) or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our users could reduce the number of listings on our websites or make completing transactions or payments on our websites more difficult, thereby harming our business. In addition, price increases by companies that provide services to our users (such as postal and delivery services) could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our users to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. Any security breach at one of these companies could also adversely affect our customers and harm our business. In addition, we have outsourced certain functions to third-party outside providers, including customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, reputation and operating results. Although we generally have been able to renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with third parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future. If any third parties were to stop providing services to us on acceptable terms, including as a result of bankruptcy due to poor economic conditions, we may be unable to procure alternatives from other third parties in a timely and efficient manner and on acceptable terms, or at all. In addition, there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to our users will continue to do so on acceptable terms, or at all. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Measures we sometimes take to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our sites by making our sites more difficult to use or restricting the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage or train our customer support representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our customers’ confidence. Because it is providing a financial service and operating in a more regulated environment, PayPal must provide telephone as well as email customer support and must resolve certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of PayPal’s program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer’s account activity are identified by PayPal’s risk models as suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity with respect to its customer support and account restrictions, and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things, failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. In the second quarter of 2010, two putative class-action lawsuits (Devinda Fernando and Vadim Tsigel v. eBay Inc. and PayPal, Inc.; and Moises Zepeda v. PayPal, Inc.) have been filed in the U.S. District Court in the Northern District of California. These lawsuits contain allegations that PayPal improperly held user’s funds or otherwise improperly limited user’s accounts. These lawsuits seek damages as well as changes to PayPal’s practices among other remedies. A determination that there have been violations of laws relating to PayPal’s practices can expose PayPal to significant liability. Changes to PayPal’s practices that may result from these lawsuits could require PayPal to incur significant costs and to expend product resources, which could cause delay to other planned product improvements, which would further harm our business. If PayPal is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, PayPal’s users may have negative experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged, and it could become subject to additional litigation. As a result, current and future revenues could suffer, losses could be incurred, and its operating margins may decrease. In addition, negative publicity about, or negative experiences with, customer support for any of our businesses could cause our reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in our brands as a whole. Our industry is intensely competitive, and other companies or governmental agencies may allege that our behavior is anti-competitive. Marketplaces Marketplaces businesses currently or potentially compete with a large number of companies providing particular categories of goods and/or broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the future. The barriers to entry into these channels can be relatively low and current offline and new competitors, including small businesses who want to create and promote their own stores, can easily launch online sites at a nominal cost using commercially available software or partnering with any one of a number of successful ecommerce companies. Our competitors include the vast majority of traditional department, warehouse, discount, and general merchandise stores (as well as the online operations of these traditional retailers), emerging online retailers, online classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline and online home shopping networks. In the U.S., these include Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club, Amazon.com, Buy.com, AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC, and Home Shopping Network, among others. A number of companies offer a variety of services that provide channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites such as craigslist (in which we own a noncontrolling equity stake), Google Merchant Center, Oodle.com and a number of international websites operated by Schibsted ASA. In certain markets, our traditional auction-style listing format and fixed-price listing formats are increasingly being challenged by other formats, such as classifieds. Our classifieds websites, including eBay Classifieds, Marktplaats, mobile.de, Gumtree, Den Blå Avis and BilBasen offer classifieds listings in the U.S. and a variety of local international markets. In many markets in which they operate, including in the U.S., our classified platforms compete against more established online and offline classifieds platforms. In 2005, we acquired Shopping.com Ltd., an online shopping comparison site. Shopping.com competes with sites such as Buy.com, Google’s Product Search, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. Recent legal developments may affect the utility of shopping comparison sites if manufacturers limit variation in product pricing. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on search engine sites such as Google and Yahoo!. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to channel users to our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. We also compete with many local, regional, and national specialty retailers and exchanges in each of the major categories of products offered on our site. For example, category-specific competitors to offerings in our Sports category include, among others: Academy Sports, Bass Pro Shops, Big 5, Cabela’s, Callaway Golf, Campmor, Dick’s Sporting Goods, GearDirect.com, Golfsmith, Performance Bicycle, Play it Again Sports, REI, The Sports Authority, and The Sportsman’s Guide, as well as other online and offline retailers, stores and shopping networks. Our international Marketplaces websites compete with similar online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online ecommerce sites, such as: Quelle and Otto in Germany; Leboncoin.fr and Price Minister in France; Tradus (owned by Naspers) in Poland; Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan; Lotte, Naver and 11th Street in South Korea; Trading Post, OZtion and Aussie Bidder in Australia; and Amazon and Play.com in the United Kingdom and other countries. In some of these countries, there are online sites that have much larger customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do, and in certain of these jurisdictions there are competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce than we do. The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the following: ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online competition, additional competitive factors include: community cohesion, interaction and size; website ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online trading services may be acquired by, receive investments from, or enter into other commercial relationships with well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. Some of our competitors may offer or continue to offer free shipping or other transaction related services, which could be impractical or inefficient for eBay sellers to match, and others may do this as well. New technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer a lower cost service. In addition, certain established retailers may encourage manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their products to dealers who sell through online channels such as eBay, or may attempt to use existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods or services. For example, manufacturers may attempt to enforce minimum resale price maintenance arrangements to prevent distributors from selling on our websites or on the Internet generally, or at prices that would make our site attractive relative to other alternatives. The adoption by manufacturers or government authorities of policies or regulations discouraging the sales of goods or services over the Internet could force eBay users to stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased competition or anti-Internet distribution policies or regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brand. In order to respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among a number of our sellers, and which could harm our profitability. Other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S. or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Such claims, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and substantial diversion of management time and effort, and could result in significant judgments against us. In several jurisdictions, we have taken actions designed to improve the security of transactions and the quality of the user experience on our websites. Beginning in June 2008, we have required users in the UK to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized UK website, and since October 2008, we have required sellers on eBay.com to accept one or more accepted payment methods (currently PayPal, credit or debit cards processed through Internet merchant accounts, ProPay, Moneybookers and Paymate) and no longer allow any forms of paper payment, including checks and money orders, to be listed by sellers in the U.S. for most categories of items. While these initiatives are intended to improve and make safer our users’ buying experience and/or increase activity on our sites, certain users may be negatively affected by or react negatively to these changes. We currently face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to such actions. For example, both the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission and the Reserve Bank of Australia recently reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. We may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. Any negative reaction to these changes by our users or government authorities could, among other things, force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business, operating results and profitability Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with several large online services and search engine companies, these arrangements may not be renewed on commercially reasonable terms or these companies may decide to promote competitive services. Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in increased usage of our services. In addition, companies that control user access to transactions through network access, Internet browsers, or search engines, could promote our competitors, channel current or potential users to their vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their advertisers’ sites, attempt to restrict access to our sites, or charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Search engines are increasingly becoming a starting point for online shopping, and as the costs of operating an online store continue to decline, online sellers may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers conduct through our sites. PayPal The markets for PayPal’s product are intensely competitive and are subject to rapid technological change, including but not limited to: mobile payments, electronic funds transfer networks starting to allow Internet access, cross-border access to networks, creation of new networks, expansion of prepaid cards, and bill pay networks. PayPal competes with existing online and offline payment methods, including, among others: credit card merchant processors that offer their services to online merchants, including American Express, Chase Paymentech, First Data, and Wells Fargo; and payment gateways, including CyberSource (which Visa has agreed to acquire) and Authorize.net (which has merged with CyberSource); money remitters such as MoneyGram, Western Union, Global Payments, Inc. and Euronet; bill payment services, including CheckFree, a subsidiary of Fiserv; processors that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account or paying on credit, including Acculynk, Moneta, eBillMe, Revolution Money (which American Express has acquired) and TeleCheck, a subsidiary of First Data; providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit cards, checks, money orders, and Automated Clearing House transactions; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including VisaBuxx, NetSpend and GreenDot; mobile payments, including Obopay, Amazon Payments, Crandy, LUUP and Payforit; Amazon Payments, which offers online merchants the ability to accept credit card- and bank-funded payments from Amazon’s base of online customers on the merchant’s own website; Google Checkout, which enables the online payment of merchants using credit cards; and Payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including Facebook and Hi5 credits, PlaySpan, Boku and Zong. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater name recognition, or a larger base of customers in affiliated businesses than PayPal. PayPal’s competitors may respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also be subject to lesser licensing, anti-money laundering, and other regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to additional regulations based on its licensure as a bank in Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google Checkout has offered free payments processing on transactions in an amount proportionate to certain advertising spending with Google. Competing services tied to established banks and other financial institutions may offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal. Overseas, PayPal faces competition from similar channels and payment methods. In each country, numerous banks provide standard online credit card acquiring and processing services, and these banks typically have leading market share. In addition, PayPal faces competition from Visa’s Visa Direct, MasterCard’s MoneySend, Royal Bank of Scotland’s World Pay, Moneybookers, ClickandBuy and Ukash in the EU; NOCHEX in the United Kingdom; Sofortüberweisung in Germany; CertaPay and HyperWallet in Canada; Paymate, BPay and POLI in Australia; Alipay, YeePay and 99 Bill in China; Inicis in South Korea; and Visa PayClick in Australia. In addition, in certain countries, such as Germany and Australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online and offline transactions. As in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and easily develop such a service. Some of PayPal’s competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First Data, American Express, and Royal Bank of Scotland, also provide processing or foreign exchange services to PayPal. If PayPal were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers, either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition, these processing and foreign exchange relationships could be negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites, including seasonal factors, national events and increased usage of other websites. Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. We would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly, our results of operations historically have experienced seasonal fluctuations because many of our users reduce their activities on our websites with the onset of good weather during the summer months, and on and around national holidays. In addition, increased usage of social networking or other entertainment websites may decrease the amount of time users spend on our websites, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of our business could harm us. We have expanded our headcount, facilities, and infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that further expansion in certain areas will be required for some of our businesses. This expansion has placed, and we expect it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. The areas that are put under strain by our growth include the following: Website Usability. User activity rates on our websites depend in part on the quality of our users’ experiences on those sites. The rapid growth in the number and complexity of products and features on our sites has occasionally caused users to become confused or overwhelmed or has otherwise impaired users’ experiences on those sites. We are in the process of making numerous improvements to our eBay websites, including an attempt to improve the user experience on those websites. These attempts at improvement could fail, or could decrease activity among users who had grown used to or preferred the existing experience on our sites. Any impairment of customer satisfaction as a result of site usability issues could lead to a loss of customers or impair our ability to add customers, either of which would harm our business. Website Stability. We must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our and our subsidiaries’ websites and the new products and features we regularly introduce. This upgrade process is expensive, and the increased complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of additional enhancements. Failure to cost effectively upgrade our technology, features, transaction processing systems, security infrastructure, or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume or changes to our site functionality could harm our business. Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer support, impaired quality of users’ experiences of our services, impaired quality of services for third-party application developers using our externally accessible APIs and delays in reporting accurate financial information. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do so could result in problems on our sites. Further, steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our margins, and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. Customer Account Billing. Our revenues depend on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed on our and our subsidiaries’ websites would harm our business and our ability to collect revenue. Customer Service. We continue to focus on providing better and more efficient customer support to our users. We intend to provide an increased level of support (including an increasing amount of telephone support) in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to provide customer support in a cost-effective manner, users of our websites may have negative experiences, current and future revenues could suffer, our costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We must continue to effectively hire, train, and manage new employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating these new employees, or if we are unsuccessful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. This is a special challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any capital investments that we may make will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in the short term. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our tax structure. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient in the event that any taxing authority is successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our positions. In addition, the economic downturn has reduced tax revenues for U.S. federal and state governments, and proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities are being considered at various levels of government. Among the options have been a range of proposals included in the tax and budget policies recommended to the U.S. Congress by the U.S. Department of the Treasury to modify the federal tax rules related to the imposition of U.S federal corporate income taxes for companies operating in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. If such proposals are enacted into law, this could increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S. states have likewise attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence in order to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state. Many U.S. states are also altering their apportionment formulas in order to increase the amount of taxable income/loss attributable to their state from certain out-of-state businesses. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of these state efforts. If more states were successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that are not present in the state, this could increase of our effective tax rate. We depend on the continued growth of online commerce. The business of selling goods over the Internet, particularly through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns about fraud, privacy, and other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting the Internet as a medium of commerce. In countries such as the U.S., Germany, Korea and the U.K., where our services and online commerce generally have been available for some time and the level of market penetration of our services is high, acquiring new users for our services may be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. In order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods and may prefer Internet analogues to such traditional retail means to our offerings, such as the retailer’s own website. If these consumers prove to be less active than our earlier users, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely impacted. Our business depends on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our services will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” malware and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have been the targets of such programs. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services, which could adversely impact our business. We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately. We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights in the U.S. and internationally, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. Effective intellectual property protection may not be available in every country in which our products and services are made available, and contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our intellectual property rights and other proprietary rights in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and time consuming and may not be successful in every location. We may not be able to discover or determine the extent of any unauthorized use of our proprietary rights. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including land and buildings related to our operations. We have little experience in managing real property. Ownership of this property subjects us to risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; disruptions to our operations resulting from possible natural disasters, interruptions in utilities and similar events; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability law, or other requirements; and possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder (as defined) for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control.",0.998388630017,0.836009882644
28,1065088, EBAY , 2009-07-29 ,2009,2," Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may decline. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include the following: general economic conditions, including the possibility of a protracted recession in the U.S. and a worldwide economic slowdown; recent disruptions to the credit and financial markets in the U.S. and worldwide; and those economic conditions specific to the Internet, ecommerce and payments industries; our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users, and encourage existing users to list items for sale, purchase items through our websites, or use our payment service or communication software and products, especially when consumer spending is contracting; the primary and second-order effects of previously announced and possible future changes to our pricing, products and policies, including, among other changes: a reduced emphasis on upfront fees (e.g., insertion fees for listings) and corresponding increases in success-based fees (e.g., final value fees for sold items); new algorithms for determining which listings appear at the top of searches; changes to buyer and seller feedback criteria; tighter seller standards, which may restrict some sellers from selling on our websites even if they have been able to do so historically; new restrictions or holds on payments made to certain sellers or in connection with certain categories of higher-risk transactions; new incentives and rewards for top PowerSellers, including pricing discounts; increased protection for buyers; lower insertion fees for, and extended duration of, listings of fixed-price items; shipping and handling limits on certain categories of items (e.g., media); requiring sellers to accept at least one approved payment method (and restricting sellers from referencing non-permitted payment methods, including paper forms of payment such as checks and money orders), on eBay.com in the U.S. for most categories of items; and recently announced changes intended to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency, including, among others, the expansion of buyer incentives and loyalty programs, requiring sellers to provide additional key information intended to set buyer expectations and reduce seller costs, and changes to the dispute resolution process (including directing eBay buyers to resolve disputes with sellers through eBay instead of through PayPal); our ability to improve the quality of the user experience on our websites in light of the improved quality generally of the user experience offered by competitive Internet merchants; our ability to reduce the loss of active buyers and sellers and increase activity of the users of our Marketplaces business, especially with respect to our top buyers and sellers, and especially in the U.S., Germany and the U.K.; our ability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that we acquire, including new needs to manage credit risks and bad debts following our acquisition of Bill Me Later in November, 2008 and to manage competing marketplaces in Korea following our acquisition of Gmarket in June 2009; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions using our websites or technology; our ability to manage the costs of our user protection programs; the volume, velocity, size, timing, monetization, and completion rates of transactions using our websites or technology; regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our businesses or our users, including the injunction related to certain cosmetic and perfume brands (see “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings” above); new laws or regulations, or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, that impose liability on us for actions of our users or otherwise harm our business models or restrict the Internet, ecommerce, online payments, online advertising or online communications; our ability to meet regulatory requirements as we expand the range and geographical scope of PayPal’s services and the range of services and marketing programs offered by Skype; the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of new sites, services, and products; our ability to manage PayPal’s payment funding mix; our ability to manage the transaction loss rate on eBay and in our Payments business; our ability to manage funding costs and losses associated with our Bill Me Later business; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure; the costs and results of litigation that involves us; our ability to develop product enhancements, programs, and features at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner; our ability to upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure, and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to improve our websites at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7 operations; technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our websites or services provided to us or our users by third parties; our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose services are required for our operations, such as credit card networks and banks; our ability to manage our businesses following recent reductions in our workforce; the cost and availability of online and traditional advertising, and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective manner and to retain key employees; the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and other parties with which we have commercial relations; our ability to manage, profitably expand and effectively monetize the Skype business; continued consumer acceptance of the Internet as a medium for commerce and communication in the face of increasing publicity about fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, malware and other dangers of the Internet; and macroeconomic and geopolitical events affecting commerce generally. It is difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. We invest heavily in marketing and promotion, customer support, protection programs, technology and further development of the operating infrastructure for our core and non-core operations. Some of this investment entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. Growth rates of our Marketplaces businesses in our most established markets, such as the U.S., Germany and the U.K., have been declining. Despite our efforts to stem these declines, growth rates in these and other markets may continue to decline. As our penetration in established markets grows, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing users, especially our top buyers and sellers, active and increasing their activity level on our websites in order to continue to grow our business. In addition, our Marketplaces business is facing increased competitive pressure. If we are unable to change our services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce marketplace, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items and higher service levels, our business will suffer. In April and July 2009, we announced changes to our Marketplaces business intended to drive more sales and improve seller efficiency, including, among others, the expansion of buyer incentives and loyalty programs, requiring sellers to provide additional key information intended to set buyer expectations and reduce seller costs, changes to the dispute resolution process (including directing eBay buyers to resolve disputes with sellers through eBay instead of through PayPal), changes to performance standards and/or rewards for sellers (including the creation of a new top-rated seller status), and the discontinuation of certain optional seller listing features. We may make further changes in these or other areas in the future. Some of the changes that we have announced to date have been controversial with, and led to dissatisfaction among, our sellers, and additional changes that we announce in the future may also be negatively received by some of our sellers. Given the number of recent changes that we have made to our policies and pricing, it may take a number of our sellers some time to fully assess and adjust to these changes, and sellers may elect to reduce volume while making such assessments and adjustments. If any of these changes cause sellers to move their business (in whole or in part) away from our websites or otherwise fail to improve gross merchandise volume or the number of successful listings, our operating results and profitability will be harmed. We believe that the mix of sales under our traditional auction-style listing format and fixed-price listing format will continue to shift towards our fixed-price format. Accordingly, we expect that some of the features related to our traditional auction-style format will become less meaningful to our sellers, which would result in a corresponding decrease in revenues from such features. In addition, we expect that the costs associated with our seller discount programs will increase as more sellers will become eligible for such discounts. In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions originate on the eBay platform, declines in growth rates in major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal’s growth rate. The expected future growth of our PayPal, Skype, StubHub, and other lower margin businesses may also cause downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms. An economic recession could harm our business. Our Marketplaces and Payments businesses are dependent on consumer purchases. The current economic downturn has resulted in reduced buyer demand and reduced selling prices and may reduce the volume of purchases on our Marketplaces platforms and the volume of transactions paid for using our PayPal payment service, all of which would adversely affect our business. In addition, an economic downturn will likely adversely affect our advertising revenues and continue to require us to increase our reserves for bad debt and transaction losses. Continuing poor economic conditions will likely continue these trends. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Because we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States but report our financial results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or if exposure reports are delayed. PayPal also holds some corporate and customer funds in non-U.S. currencies, and thus its financial results are affected by the translation of these non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses, and net income. Similarly, our net revenues, operating expenses, and net income will be negatively impacted if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies, as happened in the second half of 2008. Net revenues in the six months ended June 30, 2009 were negatively impacted by foreign currency translation of $369.9 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Operating income for the six months ended June 30, 2009 was negatively impacted by foreign currency translation of $175.7 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, British pound, Australian dollar, or Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced as a result of these translation adjustments. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to perfectly predict or completely eliminate the effects of this exposure. In addition, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar, and the Canadian dollar, cross-border trade related to purchases of dollar-denominated goods by non-U.S. purchasers will likely decrease, and that decrease will likely not be offset by a corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies, adversely affecting our business. In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. For example, recent reductions in interest rates have reduced our investment income, including income we earn on PayPal customer balances, which in turn has materially lowered our net interest income. Bill Me Later’s operations are dependent on CIT Bank We acquired Bill Me Later, a company that provides transaction-based credit, in November 2008. Bill Me Later is neither a chartered financial institution nor is it licensed to make loans in any state. Accordingly, Bill Me Later relies on CIT Bank to extend credit to customers in order to offer the Bill Me Later service. When a consumer makes a purchase using the Bill Me Later service, CIT Bank funds the consumer loan at the point of sale and advances funds to the merchant. Bill Me Later subsequently purchases the receivable related to the consumer loan extended by CIT Bank. Although CIT Bank continues to own each customer account, Bill Me Later owns the related receivable and is responsible for all servicing functions related to the account. Any termination or interruption of CIT Bank’s services to us could materially and adversely affect our ability to offer the Bill Me Later service. Under those circumstances, we would be required to either reach a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution, which may not be available on favorable terms, if at all, or to obtain our own bank charter, which would be a time-consuming and costly process and would subject us to a number of additional laws and regulations. On July 20, 2009, CIT Group, the parent company of CIT Bank, announced a restructuring plan. If CIT Group is unable to complete the restructuring plan, or if CIT Group’s financial condition otherwise significantly impairs CIT Bank’s financial condition or operations or if CIT Bank’s financial condition or operations are adversely affected for any reason, CIT Bank could be placed under FDIC receivership. In the event of a receivership, the FDIC as receiver could potentially terminate or suspend our commercial relationship with CIT Bank. If such a termination or suspension occurs before Bill Me Later has reached a similar arrangement with another chartered financial institution to provide such services, Bill Me Later would be unable to originate any new transactions until a new arrangement was made, which would materially and adversely affect Bill Me Later’s business during that period. The listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may harm our business. We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our service by our users infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual property rights. See “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings” above. Although we have sought to work actively with the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners have been active in asserting their purported rights against online companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights have resulted in threats of litigation and actual litigation against us from time to time by rights owners, including litigation brought by luxury brand owners such as Tiffany & Co. in the U.S. (where Tiffany & Co. is currently appealing the trial court ruling in favor of eBay), Rolex S.A. and Coty Prestige Lancaster Group GmbH in Germany, Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France, L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie, and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries. The plaintiffs in these cases seek to hold eBay liable for alleged counterfeit items listed on our sites by third parties, for “tester” and other not for resale consumer products and for unboxed and other allegedly nonconforming products listed on our sites by third parties, for the alleged misuse of trademarks or copyrights in listings or otherwise on our sites, or in connection with paid search advertisements, or for alleged violations of selective distribution channel laws or parallel import laws for listings of authentic items. Such plaintiffs seek, among other things, injunctive relief and damages. In the aggregate, these suits could result in significant damage awards and could adversely affect our business. In June 2008, the Paris Court of Commerce ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that eBay and eBay International AG were liable for failing to prevent the sale of counterfeit items on its websites that traded on plaintiffs’ brand names and for interfering with the plaintiffs’ selective distribution network. The court awarded the plaintiffs approximately EUR 38.6 million in damages and issued an injunction (enforceable by daily fines of up to EUR 100,000) prohibiting all sales of perfumes and cosmetics bearing the Dior, Guerlain, Givenchy and Kenzo brands over all worldwide eBay sites to the extent they are accessible from France. We have taken measures to comply with the injunction and have appealed these rulings. However, these and similar suits may force us to modify our business practices, which could lower our revenue, increase our costs or make our websites less convenient to our customers. Any such results could materially harm our business. In addition to litigation from rights owners, we may be subject to regulatory, civil or criminal proceedings and penalties if the authorities believe we have aided in the sale of counterfeit goods. While we have had some early success in defending against such litigation, more recent cases have been based, at least in part, on different legal theories than those of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in defending against such litigation. For example, the German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may owe duties, under certain circumstances, to content owners and competitors relating to taking reasonable steps to prevent the listing of illegal, counterfeit, and pirated items. Plaintiffs in recent cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe harbors under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a hosting provider in the European Union under the Electronic Commerce Directive because of the alleged active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and that, whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should be found liable because we supposedly have not adequately removed listings that are counterfeit or are authentic but allegedly violate trademark law or effectively suspended users who have created such listings. We are constantly seeking to improve and modify our efforts to eliminate counterfeit and pirated items. These improvements are in response to ongoing business initiatives designed to reduce bad buyer experiences and improve customer satisfaction as well as in response to new patterns we are seeing among counterfeiters and others committing fraud on our users. Notwithstanding these efforts, we believe that the legal climate, especially in Europe, is becoming more adverse to our arguments, which may require us to take actions which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, or make our websites less convenient to our customers, which may materially harm our business. In addition, a public perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on our site, even if factually incorrect, could damage our reputation and our business. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may also seek to bring legal action against entities that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the use of PayPal’s payment services in a transaction involving the sale of infringing items, including on our websites, our business could be harmed. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties’ patents. Some of these ongoing suits are described under the heading “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings,” above. We are a defendant in other patent suits and we have been notified of several other potential patent disputes, and expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our Marketplaces, Payments and Communications segments as our services expand in scope and complexity. These claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Use of our services for illegal purposes could harm our business. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for the activities of their users on their service is often challenged in the U.S. and internationally. We may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful or stolen goods or unlawful services or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. We have been subject to several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In December 2004, an executive of Baazee.com, our Indian subsidiary, was arrested in connection with a user’s listing of a pornographic video clip on that website. We continue to contest the charges related to this arrest. Similarly, our Korean subsidiary and one of its employees were found criminally liable for listings on the Korean subsidiary’s website. The German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may have a duty to take reasonable measures to prevent prohibited DVDs from being sold on our site to minors and that competitors may be able to enforce this duty. In a number of circumstances, third parties have alleged that our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws, including antiscalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, the fencing of stolen goods, selective distribution channel laws, and distance selling laws. Although we have prohibited the listing of stolen goods and certain high-risk items and implemented other protective measures, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, any of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged or actual sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our business. Certain manufacturers and large retailers have sought new U.S. Federal and state legislation regarding stolen goods that could limit our ability to allow sellers to use our sites without confirming the source of, and their legal rights to sell, the underlying goods. In addition, from time to time we have received significant media attention relating to the listing or sale of unlawful goods and stolen goods using our services. This negative publicity, even if factually incorrect, could damage our reputation, diminish the value of our brand names and make users reluctant to use our services. PayPal’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software and other intellectual property, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, and online securities fraud. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, illegal activities could still be funded using PayPal. Any resulting claims or liabilities could adversely affect our business. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our service. As discussed above with respect to certain specific issues, the law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services is often unsettled. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability under a number of these theories have been brought against us, as well as other online service companies. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our service features a Feedback Forum, which includes information from users regarding other users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could be made in the future against us for not removing content posted in the Feedback Forum. Furthermore, several court decisions arguably have narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers like us under the Communications Decency Act. For example, the Ninth Circuit has held that certain immunity provisions under the Communications Decency Act might not apply to the extent that a website owner materially contributes to the development of unlawful content on its website. As our websites evolve, challenges to the applicability of these immunities can be expected to continue. In addition, the Paris Court of Commerce has ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that applicable laws protecting passive internet “hosts” from liability are inapplicable to eBay given that the content in question was provided by users under eBay’s control and authority. This trend, if continued, may increase our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites, particularly in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability, including expending substantial resources or discontinuing certain service offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could require us to incur additional costs and harm our reputation and our business. Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties. A large number of transactions occur on our websites on a daily basis. Government regulators have received a significant number of consumer complaints about both eBay and PayPal, which, while small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been contacted by various foreign and domestic governmental regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure practices from the Federal Trade Commission and regarding these and other business practices from the attorneys general of a number of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase educational messaging to users about funding choices, and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. We currently face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to actions that we have taken that are designed to improve the safety of transactions on our websites, most notably by requiring PayPal to be offered and/or used for certain high-risk transactions or by certain sellers in certain jurisdictions, and we may face similar inquires from other government regulators in the future. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia recently reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding sellers from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. Similarly, Bill Me Later has from time to time received customer complaints that could result in investigations into Bill Me Later’s business practices by state or federal regulators. As a result of the current credit crisis, we expect new laws and regulations to be adopted that impose, among other things, additional obligations and restrictions on providers of credit. We are likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, including under existing or new credit laws or regulations, which may lead to action against us. We have responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures, operating procedures and disclosures. If one or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties, or forced to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes. From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries have increased as our business has expanded and our company has grown larger. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the courts and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable. Any claims or regulatory actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming result in costly litigation, damage awards, injunctive relief, or increased costs of business through adverse judgment or settlement, require us to change our business practices in expensive ways, require significant amounts of management time, result in the diversion of significant operational resources, or otherwise harm our business. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent transactions and customer disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our business. Beginning in October 2008, buyers who pay for transactions on eBay.com with PayPal are protected on eligible transactions for the full amount of an item’s purchase price if the buyer does not receive the goods they purchased or if the goods differ significantly from what was described by the seller. Furthermore, U.S. sellers on eBay.com have received improved seller protection for eligible transactions in which the seller is paid with PayPal, in that they are covered against payment reversals due to buyer claims of an unauthorized payment or an item that was not received, so long as the seller follows specified shipping and handling practices. We have also enhanced our buyer and seller protections in certain eBay international marketplaces. These changes to PayPal’s buyer and seller protection program could result in future increases and fluctuations in our Payments transaction loss rate. For the full year ended December 31, 2008 and the three months ended June 30, 2009, our Payments transaction losses (including both direct losses and buyer protection payouts) totaled $171.5 million and $49.5 million, representing 0.29% and 0.30% of our net Total Payment Volume in each period, respectively. We have recently announced plans to change the dispute resolution process for transactions on eBay.com and eBay.co.uk (including directing eBay buyers to resolve disputes with sellers through eBay instead of through PayPal), which could result in an increase in our transaction losses. PayPal’s highly automated and liquid payment service makes PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using stolen credit card or bank account numbers can potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal’s current and former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone out of business or significantly restricted their businesses largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent PayPal’s anti-fraud systems using increasingly sophisticated methods. In addition, PayPal’s service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches. Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud or other types of fraud. PayPal incurs substantial losses from merchant fraud, including claims from customers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant’s description. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from erroneous transmissions, and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. In addition to the direct costs of such losses, if they are related to credit card transactions and become excessive, they could potentially result in PayPal losing the right to accept credit cards for payment. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and result in corresponding decreases in our net Total Payment Volume, in which case our business would further suffer. Bill Me Later is similarly subject to the risk of fraudulent activity associated with merchants, users of the Bill Me Later service and third parties handling its user information, which could increase our exposure to transaction losses and reduce the profitability of Bill Me Later’s business. Our Payments business has taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new and continually evolving forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business will suffer. eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from users who may not have received the goods that they had purchased. In some cases individuals have been arrested and convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay also receives complaints from sellers who have not received payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the item, or because the buyer bid on the item maliciously in order to harm either the seller or eBay. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While sometimes eBay can suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through our limited buyer protection programs. The impact of recently announced changes to our dispute resolutions program is discussed in more detail below under the caption “Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate.” Other than through these programs, eBay does not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded by other users, although users who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their credit card company or bank, which in turn will seek reimbursement from PayPal. eBay also periodically receives complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is only beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for third-party actions could be costly for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our Marketplaces and Payments services could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, diminish the value of our brand names. We believe that negative user experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using our services. Changes to our dispute resolution process could increase our costs and loss rate. In April 2009, we announced plans to change the dispute resolution process (which we refer to as resolutions) for transactions on eBay.com and eBay.co.uk in which buyers claim the item was not received or the item they received was different from that described in the listing. Currently, buyers with an issue on our eBay.com and eBay.co.uk platform are generally required to contact the seller directly, and, if they are unable to resolve the issue, to start the resolutions process online via PayPal’s resolution center. If the buyer did not pay with PayPal, they may have no recourse. We are in the process of transitioning to a new, on-eBay resolutions process provided by eBay customer support, which will serve as the primary entry point for buyers who are unable to resolve their disputes with eBay sellers. Among other things, the new resolutions process provides that eBay will reimburse the buyer in cases where the item was not received or the item they received was different from that described in the listing and the seller does not provide adequate resolution to the buyer. We expect that our costs associated with resolutions will increase as we make these changes to our resolutions process. In addition, the eBay customer support team that will handle resolutions does not have the same experience in fraud detection as the PayPal customer support team, and we may therefore be susceptible to an increase in fraud and associated transaction losses as a result of these changes. We may make further changes in these or other areas in the future. Any factors which reduce cross-border trade could harm our business. Cross-border trade has become an increasingly important source of both revenue and profits for us. Cross-border transactions using our websites generally provide higher revenues and gross margins than similar transactions that take place within a single country or market. We generally earn higher transaction fees for cross-border transactions involving PayPal, and our Marketplaces business continues to represent a relatively easy way for buyers and sellers to engage in cross-border trade compared with other alternatives. To the extent that any factors result in a net reduction in cross-border trade, including, among other factors, fluctuations in exchange rates, the application of specific national or regional laws (e.g., selective distribution channel laws and parallel import laws) to users in other countries, or any other factors impose restrictions on, or increase the costs of, shipping goods across national borders (including customs enforcement and tariffs), our business would suffer. We believe that recent increases in the relative value of the U.S. dollar versus other currencies have reduced cross-border trade between U.S. sellers and foreign buyers, without a corresponding increase in cross-border traffic in the other direction, adversely affecting our business. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft. To succeed, online commerce and communications must provide a secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our security measures may not detect or prevent security breaches that could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. PayPal’s users routinely provide credit card and other financial information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effectively secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data. An increasing number of websites have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of our security could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business, and could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws. In addition, a party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Under credit card rules and our contracts with our card processors, if there is a breach of credit card information that we store, or that is stored by PayPal’s direct credit card processing customers, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow credit card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept credit cards, our business would be seriously damaged. eBay’s Korean subsidiary, IAC, has notified a majority of its approximately 20 million users of a January 2008 data breach involving personally identifiable information including name, address, resident registration number and some transaction and refund data (but not including credit card information or real time banking information). Approximately 143,000 users have sued IAC over this breach in several lawsuits in Korean courts and we expect more to do so in the future. Trial for a group of representative suits is scheduled to begin in August 2009. There is some precedent in Korea for a court to grant “consolation money” for data breaches without a specific finding of harm from the breach. Such precedents have involved payments of up to approximately $200 per user. IAC intends to vigorously defend itself in this lawsuit. In December 2008, the Korea Consumer Agency (KCA) made a non-binding recommendation that IAC make payments of 50,000-100,000 Korean won (approximately $40-$80) to users who had complained to it as a result of such breach. IAC rejected this non-binding recommendation and did not make any payments, and this KCA process has ended. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time (most recently involving our Korean IAC website in July 2009). We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breach by us or by parties with which we have commercial relationships that result in the unauthorized release of our users’ personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses through “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay, PayPal, Skype, or a user of one of those businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via email or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” and “phishing” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” remain a serious problem that may damage our brands, discourage use of our websites, and increase our costs. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users, especially for financial information and for users located outside of the U.S. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions but also to transfers of information between ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. New laws in this area have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. In addition, we have and post on our websites our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Our revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our control. We derive an increasing portion of our revenues from advertising on our websites. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such as general changes in the economy and changes in consumer spending, as well as the effectiveness of online advertising versus offline advertising media and the value our websites provide to advertisers relative to other websites. Recent economic conditions have adversely impacted our advertising revenue. In addition, major search engine operators have the ability to change from time to time, at their sole discretion, the rules and search algorithms governing the pricing, availability, and placement of online advertising. Any changes in these rules or search algorithms could materially reduce the value that we derive from online advertising on our websites, either directly or indirectly. For example, retailers pay a fee to Shopping.com for online shoppers directed to their websites by Shopping.com. Rule changes made by search engines in 2008 disrupted traffic to our Shopping.com website, which in turn adversely affected click-through traffic to retailers from our Shopping.com website and associated fee revenue. If we experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to economic, competitive, technological or other factors, including the worldwide economic slowdown, a reduction in revenue due to the renegotiation of the terms of our contracts with major advertising companies such as Yahoo!, Google and Microsoft, or if we are unable to provide value to our advertisers, our business and financial results would suffer. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and these efforts may be costly. We believe that continuing to strengthen our brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require a continued focus on active marketing efforts across all of our brands. We will need to continue to spend substantial amounts of money on, and devote substantial resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Since 2005, we have significantly increased the number of brands we are supporting, adding Shopping.com, our classified websites (e.g., Kijiji, Marktplaats and Den Blå Avis), StubHub, Skype, Bill Me Later and Gmarket, among others. Each of these brands requires its own resources, increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. Also, major search engine operators that we use to advertise our brands have frequently-changing rules that govern their pricing, availability and placement of online advertisement (e.g., paid search, keywords), and changes to these rules could negatively affect our use of online advertising to promote our brands. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business would be harmed. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy apply to online businesses such as ours. The majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European Union’s Directives on Distance Selling and Electronic Commerce, are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. Furthermore, as our activities and the types of goods and services listed on our websites expand, including through acquisitions such as our acquisition of Bill Me Later, a transactional credit provider, in November 2008 and StubHub, an online ticket marketplace, in February 2007, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are subject to licensure or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either generally or with respect to certain actions (e.g., the sale of real estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats and automobiles). Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing businesses that perceive our business model to be a threat to their business to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. These established businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. In particular, these established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, selective distribution networks, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. Success in changing the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Over the last few years some large retailers and their trade associations have sought legislation in a number of states and the U.S. Congress that would make eBay liable for the sale of stolen property or would ban certain categories of goods from sale on our platform, including gift cards and health and beauty products. No such legislation has passed. Nonetheless, the proponents continue to seek passage of such legislation, and if any of these laws are adopted they could harm our business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, where our headquarters are located, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions, including France, have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to impose such regulations upon us or our users. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing and such attempted enforcements could harm our business. In France, we have been sued by Conseil des Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority. The authority alleges that sales on our French website constitute illegal auctions that cannot be performed without its consent. A lawsuit alleging similar claims has been brought against us by two associations of French antique dealers. We intend to vigorously defend against these lawsuits. However, this and other regulatory and licensure claims could result in costly litigation and, if successful, could require us to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues (for example, by forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items for some locations). We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries or markets in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, and we facilitate sales of goods to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. For example, we were found liable in France, under French law in the recent Louis Vuitton Malletier litigation for transactions on our websites worldwide that did not involve French buyers and sellers (see “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings” above). Laws regulating Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the U.S. may be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, competitors, users and other third parties. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us. Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services. In light of the global financial crisis, federal lawmakers in Washington, D.C., have discussed the possibility of overhauling the U.S. financial regulatory system and making significant changes to regulations governing financial services. In the event that such changes are adopted, they could potentially result in PayPal becoming subject to one or more federal financial services regulators and eBay Inc. being regulated as a financial services holding company. Even if we do not become subject to regulation in the manner described in the preceding sentence, we could be subject to additional licensure requirements, laws and regulations and increased regulatory scrutiny, which would impose substantial costs on us and could require us to change our business practices in ways that would harm our business. If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfers, money laundering, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices. While PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send payments from 190 markets, PayPal only allows customers in 65 of those markets (including the U.S.) to receive payments, in some cases with significant restrictions on the manner in which customers can withdraw funds. These limitations may affect PayPal’s ability to grow in these markets. Of the 190 markets whose residents can use the PayPal service, 31 (27 countries plus four French overseas departments) are members of the European Union (EU). Since 2007, PayPal has provided localized versions of its service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe) S.A.R.L. et Cie, SCA., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed as a bank in Luxembourg. Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks. PayPal has limited experience in operating as a bank, and any fines or other enforcement actions imposed by the Luxembourg regulator could adversely affect PayPal’s business. PayPal (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries through an expedited “passport” notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the “passport” notice process in all EU member countries. The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that will apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law, and could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. Any such responses from these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, PayPal’s plans for expanding its business. In markets other than the U.S., EU, Australia and China, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Private Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore. In many of these markets, it is not clear whether PayPal’s Singapore-based service is subject to Singaporean law or, if it is subject to local laws, whether such local law requires a payment processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial institution or otherwise. Even if PayPal is not currently required to obtain a license in some jurisdictions, future localization or targeted marketing of PayPal’s service in those countries, or expansion of the financial products offered by PayPal to new jurisdictions (either alone, through a commercial alliance or through an acquisition), could subject PayPal to additional licensure requirements, laws and regulations and increased regulatory scrutiny. These factors could impose substantial costs and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of its products. Delay or failure to receive such a license or regulatory approval could require PayPal to change its business practices or features in ways that would adversely affect PayPal’s international expansion plans, and could require PayPal to suspend providing products and services to customers in one or more countries. PayPal is also subject to various anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations around the world that prohibit, among other things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. Although PayPal has adopted a program to comply with these laws and regulations, any errors or failure to implement the program properly could lead to lawsuits, administrative action, and prosecution by the government. In the United States, PayPal is also subject to regulations that require it to report suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. The interpretation of suspicious activities in this context is uncertain. Future regulations under the USA PATRIOT Act may require PayPal to revise the procedures it uses to verify the identity of its customers and to monitor international transactions more closely. PayPal has localized its service in several other countries and as a result is subject to additional verification and reporting requirements, which in some cases are more stringent. Several countries, including Australia, Luxembourg and Singapore, have recently implemented new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and PayPal has made changes to its procedures accordingly. As PayPal continues to localize its services in additional jurisdictions, the impact of these varying laws and regulations on PayPal’s business is uncertain. PayPal could be required, among other things, to learn more about its customers before opening an account, to obtain additional verification of customers and to monitor its customers’ activities more closely. These requirements could impose significant costs on PayPal, make it more difficult for new customers to join its network and reduce the attractiveness of its product. Failure to comply with federal, state or foreign money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties, and forfeiture of significant assets. To date, PayPal has obtained licenses to operate as a money transmitter in 42 U.S. states and territories and interpretations in seven states that licensing is not required under their existing statutes. The remaining U.S. states and territories do not currently regulate money transmitters. As a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to restrictions on its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, bonding requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. If PayPal were found to be in violation of money services laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to liability, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, forced to change its business practices, or required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on PayPal. Any change to PayPal’s business practices that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease the velocity of trade on eBay, which would further harm our business. Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date, PayPal has assumed that its service is subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the Federal Reserve Board. As a result, among other things, PayPal must provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, follow specified error resolution procedures and reimburse consumers for losses above $50 from transactions not authorized by the consumer. PayPal currently voluntarily reimburses consumers for all financial losses from transactions not authorized by the consumer, not just losses above $50. PayPal seeks to pass most of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its PayPal account. Our Bill Me Later service is similarly subject to a variety of laws and regulations. Although Bill Me Later does not originate loans, one or more jurisdictions may conclude that Bill Me Later is a lender or money transmitter or loan broker, which could subject us to liability or regulation in one or more jurisdictions. Additionally, federal regulators could mandate changes to the relationship between Bill Me Later and CIT Bank, the financial institution that Bill Me Later relies on to extend credit to customers with the Bill Me Later service. Any adverse changes in this relationship could negatively impact Bill Me Later’s ability to continue operating its business as currently conducted, as described in “Bill Me Later’s operations are dependent on CIT Bank” above. Changes to credit card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm PayPal’s business. PayPal does not belong to or directly access credit card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard. As a result, PayPal must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions, and must pay fees for this service. From time to time, credit card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. PayPal’s credit card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to PayPal as well as increase their own fees for processing. These increased fees increase PayPal’s operating costs and reduce its profit margins. PayPal is also required by its processors to comply with credit card network operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by credit card networks as a result of any rule violations by PayPal or PayPal’s customers. The credit card networks set and interpret the credit card rules. Credit card networks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow. As a result, PayPal could lose its ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In addition, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and our business would further suffer. PayPal is required to comply with credit card networks’ special operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal and its credit card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchant customers in order to comply with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in fines, the amount of which would be within the credit card networks’ discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines from credit card networks if it fails to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. For “high risk” merchants, PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using PayPal or register such merchants with credit card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has incurred fines from its credit card processor relating to PayPal’s failure to detect the use of its service by “high risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has not been material, but any additional fines in the future would likely be for larger amounts, could become material, and could result in a termination of PayPal’s ability to accept credit cards or changes in PayPal’s process for registering new customers, which would seriously damage PayPal’s business. Changes in PayPal’s funding mix could adversely affect PayPal’s results. PayPal pays significant transaction fees when senders fund payment transactions using credit cards, nominal fees when customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or use buyer credit issued by GE Money Bank. Senders fund a significant portion of PayPal’s payment volume using credit cards, and PayPal’s financial success will remain highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its senders fund payments using credit cards. Senders may prefer funding using credit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of reasons, including the ability to dispute and reverse charges directly with their credit card provider if merchandise is not delivered or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles or other incentives offered by credit card issuers, the ability to defer payment, or a reluctance to provide bank account information to PayPal. The proportion of PayPal’s payment volume funded using credit cards has increased over time. In addition, some of PayPal’s newer offerings, including the ability to make a limited number of payments without opening an account, have a higher rate of credit card funding than PayPal’s basic product offering. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. At the same time, PayPal announced that it had reached a preliminary settlement agreement under which it agreed to pay approximately $3.5 million into a settlement fund for the benefit of a class represented by plaintiffs in a suit that alleged, among other things, that PayPal’s disclosure regarding the effects of users’ choice of funding mechanism was deceptive. This settlement has now been approved by the court. PayPal’s failure to manage customer funds properly would harm its business. PayPal’s ability to manage and account accurately for customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and limited management experience in managing these internal controls. As PayPal’s business continues to grow, it must strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal’s success requires significant public confidence in its ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to manage accurately customer funds could diminish customer use of PayPal’s product severely. System failures could harm our business. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our websites will reduce our current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and profits, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to 22 hours, and our PayPal website has suffered intermittent unavailability for periods as long as five days. In August 2007, Skype experienced an interruption during which the majority of Skype’s users were unable to use its products for approximately two days. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical for PayPal, especially as it seeks to expand its Merchant Services business. Because PayPal is a regulated financial entity, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to fines, penalties, or mandatory changes to PayPal’s business practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers’ businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Some of our systems, including our Shopping.com and Skype websites and the systems related to the Bill Me Later business, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. There are many risks associated with our international operations. Our international expansion has been rapid and our international business, especially in Germany and the U.K., has also become critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 54% and 53%, respectively, of our net revenues in fiscal year 2008 and the first six months of 2009. Expansion into international markets requires management attention and resources and requires us to localize our services to conform to local cultures, standards, and policies. The commercial, Internet, and transportation infrastructure in lesser-developed countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our traditional Marketplace business model. In many countries, we compete with local companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew our eBay marketplace offering from the Japanese market, and in 2007 we contributed our business in China to a joint venture with a local Chinese company. Even if we are successful in developing new markets, we often expect the costs of operating new sites to exceed our net revenues for at least 12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand internationally, including through the expansion of PayPal, Skype, Shopping.com, and our classified businesses, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: strong local competitors; regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet services, communications, auctioneering, professional selling, distance selling, privacy and data protection, banking, and money transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain categories of goods, require product changes, require special licensure, subject us to various taxes, penalties or audits, or limit the transfer of information between us and our affiliates; greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings and other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a result of legal systems that are less developed with respect to the Internet, unique local laws, conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, online trading; laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses; difficulties in integrating with local payment providers, including banks, credit and debit card networks, and electronic fund transfer systems or with the local telecommunications infrastructure; differing levels of retail distribution, shipping, communications, and Internet infrastructures; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; challenges associated with joint venture relationships, including dependence on our joint venture partners; difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, and greater problems in collecting accounts receivable; potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation of our fees or of transactions on our websites; higher telecommunications and Internet service provider costs; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; seasonal reductions in business activity; expenses associated with localizing our products, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions, and exchange rate fluctuations; volatility in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or military conditions (e.g., in South Korea relating to its disputes with North Korea); challenges associated with maintaining relationships with local law enforcement and related agencies; and differing intellectual property laws. Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we also could become subject to increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, repatriating money without adverse tax consequences, and risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations is discussed in more detail under the caption “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates,” above. In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product development, customer support and other operations, in regions outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which reduce the anticipated benefits, including cost efficiencies and productivity improvements, associated with providing these functions outside of the U.S. could adversely affect our business. We are continuing to expand PayPal’s services internationally. In some countries, expansion of PayPal’s business may require a close commercial relationship with one or more local banks, a shared ownership interest with a local entity or registration as a bank under local law. Such requirements may reduce our profitability or limit the scope of our activities in particular countries. Any limitation on our ability to expand PayPal internationally could harm our business. We maintain a portion of Shopping.com’s research and development facilities and personnel in Israel, and in January 2008 we acquired Fraud Sciences Ltd., an Israeli company. As a result, political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect those operations. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its neighboring countries remains uncertain. Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed hostilities between Israel and neighboring countries or other entities could make it more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of employees due to military service, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions and joint ventures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including, most recently, Gmarket in Korea, Bill Me Later in the United States and Den Blå Avis and BilBasen, classified businesses in Denmark. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration, particularly given the number, size and varying scope of our recent acquisitions; declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; in some cases, the need to transition operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms; and liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or all of our acquisitions, or may not realize them in the time frame expected. For example, in connection with the Skype transaction, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $1.4 billion in our financial statements during 2007. Future acquisitions or mergers may require us to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. In addition, we have made certain investments, including through joint ventures, in which we have a minority equity interest and lack management and operational control. These investments may involve risks. For example, the controlling joint venture partner in a joint venture investment may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Bill Me Later’s operations expose us to new risks. Risks associated with Bill Me Later’s reliance on CIT Bank are discussed in detail under the caption “Bill Me Later’s operations are dependent on CIT Bank” above. Bill Me Later relies on third-party merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions using the Bill Me Later service. For the six months ended June 30, 2009, approximately 82% of all transaction volume by dollar amount through the Bill Me Later service was settled through the facilities of a single vendor. Any disruption to these third party payment processing and gateway services would adversely affect the Bill Me Later service. We currently fund the purchase of receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts through free cash flow generated from our portfolio of businesses and from our existing line of credit. Our existing line of credit may be adversely affected by the impact of current financial conditions on our counterparties. Our ability to securitize receivables related to Bill Me Later accounts has been effectively eliminated by recent disruptions in the credit industry. If we are unable to fund receivables related to the Bill Me Later business adequately or in a cost-effective manner, the growth and profitability of the Bill Me Later business could be significantly and adversely affected. The Bill Me Later service is offered to a wide range of consumers, and the profitability of this business depends on our ability to manage credit risk while attracting new consumers with profitable usage patterns. Bill Me Later approves loans using proprietary segmentation and credit scoring algorithms and other analytical techniques designed to analyze the credit risk of the specific transaction. These algorithms and techniques may not accurately predict the creditworthiness of a consumer due to, among other factors, inaccurate assumptions about a particular consumer or the economic environment. Bill Me Later may also incorrectly interpret the data produced by these algorithms in setting its credit policies. Bill Me Later’s ability to manage credit risk may also be adversely affected by economic conditions, legal or regulatory changes (such as bankruptcy laws and minimum payment regulations), competitors’ actions and consumer behavior and other factors. In addition, the credit crisis and current recession in the U.S. may affect consumer confidence levels and reduce consumers’ ability or willingness to use credit, including our transaction-based credit product, which could impair the growth of the Bill Me Later business. As of June 30, 2009, Bill Me Later had an aggregate consumer loan portfolio of approximately $553.4 million. Like other businesses with significant exposure to losses from consumer loans, the Bill Me Later service faces the risk that account holders will default on their payment obligations, resulting in accounts becoming uncollectible, and the risk of potential charge-offs related to the loan portfolio. The rate at which accounts are charged off as uncollectible, or the credit loss rate, was approximately 11.08% for the three months ended June 30, 2009. The nonpayment rate among Bill Me Later users may increase due to, among other things, worsening economic conditions, such as the current recession in the U.S., and higher unemployment rates. Consumers who miss payments on their loans often fail to repay them, and consumers who file for protection under the bankruptcy laws generally do not repay their loans. The age and rate of growth of a consumer loan portfolio also affects the rate of missed payments and loans charged off as uncollectible. Consumers are less likely to miss their payments within the first 12 to 18 months of a loan’s term. When a lender makes fewer loans than it has in the past, the proportion of new loans in its portfolio will decrease and the rate of missed payments and charge-offs in the portfolio will increase, which has been the case with Bill Me Later. In addition, Bill Me Later faces other risks similar to those faced by PayPal, including the risk of system failures, security breaches or other loss of customer data, fraud, intellectual property claims, compliance failures, and changes to regulations relating to credit offerings described in these Risk Factors, including under the captions “Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties” and “If our Payments business is found to be subject to or in violation of any laws or regulations, including those governing money transmission, electronic funds transfer, money laundering, banking and lending, it could be subject to liability, licensure and regulatory approval and may be forced to change its business practices.” Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax (VAT), goods and services tax, business tax, and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or ecommerce or communications conducted over the Internet. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of electronic commerce or communications on the Internet. For example, the State of New York recently passed legislation that requires any out-of-state seller of tangible personal property to collect and remit New York use tax if the seller engages affiliates above certain financial thresholds in New York to perform certain business promotion activities. Several ecommerce companies are challenging this new law, which was recently upheld by a lower level New York court. A number of states have followed the example of New York and are considering similar legislation related to affiliate activities. While the new law in New York does not specifically apply to our businesses, the proliferation of such state legislation could adversely affect some of our sellers at some point in the future and indirectly harm our business. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project — an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S. state, and local governments to require collection and remittance of distant sales tax by out-of-state sellers — bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress to overturn the Supreme Court’s Quill decision, which limits the ability of state governments to require sellers outside of their own state to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. Such legislation may be considered by the U.S. Congress as a way to enable states to increase sales tax revenues and help address significant state budget difficulties caused by the economic downturn. The adoption of any legislation overturning the Quill decision that lacks a robust small business exemption would result in the imposition of sales taxes, as well as costs associated with complex sales tax collection, remittance and audit compliance requirements on our sellers, would make selling on our websites less attractive for small retailers, and would harm our business. From time to time, some taxing authorities have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes. In May 2008, the City of Chicago notified both eBay and StubHub that they are liable for a city amusement tax on tickets to events in Chicago, irrespective of the location of the buyer or seller, and has filed suit to enforce collection of taxes they claim are due. In March 2009, the court ruled that StubHub is not required to collect and remit the Amusement Tax. The City of Chicago has requested reconsideration of this ruling and StubHub has sought clarification of the ruling relative to the remaining counts as well. The application of similar existing or future laws could have adverse effects on our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services or communications through the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. The U.S. federal government’s moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce was extended through November 2014. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. One or more states or the federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection, reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been discussed in the U.S. Congress, several states, and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if an eBay company was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which eBay operates. In July 2008, the Housing and Economic Recovery Act of 2008 (H.R. 3221) was signed into law. This law contains provisions that require companies like PayPal to report to the IRS information on payments received by some of our customers. The legislation, effective for payments received after December 31, 2010, will require PayPal and similar companies to report to the IRS U.S.-based customers who receive more than $20,000 in payments and more than 200 payments in a year. This law will require PayPal to request tax ID numbers from U.S. users and track payments by tax ID number. This requirement may decrease seller activity and harm our business. One or more other jurisdictions may also seek to impose tax-collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Imposition of a discriminatory record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Foreign authorities may also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from, or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim this input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify eBay’s obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting requirements could harm our users and our business. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which eBay conducts or will conduct business. The current regulatory environment for Internet communications is uncertain, and Skype’s business could be harmed by new regulations or the application of existing regulations to its products. The current regulatory environment for Internet communications is uncertain and rapidly changing. Skype believes that its Internet communications products are currently subject to few, if any, of the same regulations that apply to traditional telephony and Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP)-based telephone replacement services. Internet communications companies are generally subject to different regulatory regimes in different countries, and in most cases are subject to lower, or no, regulatory fees and lesser, or no, specific regulatory requirements. However, the status of Internet communications providers is uncertain in many jurisdictions and Skype frequently must respond to inquiries about its regulatory status. Regulatory agencies may require Skype to conform to rules that are difficult or impossible for it to comply with due to the nature of its communications technologies, which could adversely affect its business. For example, while suitable alternatives may be developed in the future, Skype is currently unable to identify the exact geographic origin of the traffic traversing the Internet or to provide detailed calling information about computer-to-computer communications, either of which may make complying with future regulatory requirements, such as emergency calling services requirements, which require traditional and telephony and VoIP-based providers to be able to determine and provide the location of a person making an emergency call in many jurisdictions, difficult or impossible. Governments may impose new or increased fees, taxes, and administrative burdens on Internet communications companies, or Skype may change its product offerings in a manner that subjects it to telecommunications regulations. Increased fees could include access and other charges payable to local exchange carriers to carry and terminate traffic, contributions to federal or state Universal Service Funds in the United States and elsewhere, and other charges. In addition, such fees may be assessed by governments retroactively or prospectively. Skype may be required to meet various emergency service requirements, disability access requirements, user protection requirements, number assignment and portability requirements, and interception or wiretapping requirements, such as the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act in the U.S. and similar laws in other jurisdictions. Such regulations could result in substantial costs depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements, and any increased costs could erode Skype’s pricing advantage over competing forms of communication. Regulations that decrease the degree of privacy for users of Skype’s products could also slow its adoption. The increasing growth and popularity of Internet communications heightens the risk that governments will seek to regulate Internet communications, and Skype has received an increasing number of inquiries from regulators about its products and services. Competitors, including the incumbent telephone companies, may devote substantial lobbying efforts to seek greater protection for their existing businesses and increased regulation of Internet communications. In the United States, various state legislatures and regulatory agencies are beginning to impose their own requirements and taxes on Internet communications. Some countries have prohibited Skype. In many countries in which Skype products are available, the laws that may relate to its offerings are unclear. We cannot be certain that Skype or its customers are currently in full compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements in all countries in which Skype is used. Skype’s failure or the failure of those with whom Skype transacts business to comply with these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increased regulatory requirements on Internet communications would increase Skype’s costs, and, as a result, our business would suffer. New rules and regulations with respect to Internet communications are being considered in various countries around the world, and at least some of these rules and regulations are likely to be adopted and to be applicable to Skype. Such new rules and regulations are likely to increase our costs of doing business and could prevent us from delivering our products and offerings over the Internet, which could adversely affect Skype’s customer base, and thus its revenue. Skype depends on key technology that is licensed from third parties. Skype licenses technology underlying certain key components of its software from third parties it does not control, including the technology underlying its peer-to-peer architecture and firewall traversal technology and the video compression/decompression used to provide high video quality. Although Skype has contracts in place with its third-party technology providers, there can be no assurance that the licensed technology or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of, or inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in a decrease in service quality or loss of service until equivalent technology or suitable alternatives can be developed, identified, licensed and integrated. While we believe Skype generally has the ability to either extend these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or identify and obtain or develop suitable alternatives, the costs associated with licensing or developing such alternatives could be high and the technical challenge of assuring “backward compatibility” with older versions of Skype’s technology may be difficult to overcome. Any failure to maintain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or to license or develop alternative technologies would harm Skype’s business. In March 2009, Skype filed a claim in the English High Court of Justice (No. HC09C00756) against Joltid Limited, a licensor of certain peer-to-peer communication technology used in Skype’s business. Following the filing of the claim, Joltid purported to terminate the license agreement between the parties. See “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings” above. Our businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet. Internet service providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge us or our users additional fees for our offerings. Our customers rely on access to the Internet to use our products and services. In many cases that access is provided by companies that compete with at least some of our offerings, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and large Internet service providers. Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of customers’ use of our offerings by restricting or prohibiting the use of their lines for our offerings, by filtering, blocking, delaying, or degrading the packets containing the data associated with our products, or by charging increased fees to us or our users for use of their lines to provide our offerings. Some of these providers have contractually restricted their customers’ access to Internet communications offerings (which would include Skype) through their terms of service with their customers. These activities are technically feasible and may be permitted by applicable law. In addition, Internet service providers could attempt to charge us each time our customers use our offerings. Worldwide, a number of companies have announced plans to take such actions or are selling products designed to facilitate such actions. Interference with our offerings or higher charges for access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers, could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have laws and regulations covering the resale of event tickets, and some jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices above the face value of the tickets, and new laws and regulations imposing these or other restrictions may be adopted that would limit our or our users’ ability to continue our tickets business. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions. Some event organizers and professional sports teams have expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our sites. Suits alleging a variety of causes of actions have in the past, and may in the future, be filed against StubHub and eBay by venue owners, competitors, ticket buyers and unsuccessful ticket buyers. Such litigation could result in damage awards, could require us to change our business practices in ways that may be harmful to our business, or could otherwise negatively affect our tickets business. Our tickets business is also subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. The recent economic downturn has resulted in a decrease in ticket prices sold on our site and has adversely affected revenue and profits. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies (such as TicketMaster, Live Nation and Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports teams and leagues), ticket brokers, and other online and offline ticket resellers, such as TicketsNow (which is owned by TicketMaster) and RazorGator. In addition, ticketing service companies and event organizers have recently begun to issue event tickets through paperless (electronic) ticketing systems that include restrictions on the transferability of such event tickets. To the extent that event tickets issued in this manner cannot be resold on our websites, or to the extent that we are otherwise unable to compete with these competitors, our tickets business would be harmed. We depend on key personnel. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel and our ability to retain and motivate them. In 2008, we changed our Chief Executive Officer and the heads of all three of our business units. These changes may result in increased attrition of our personnel as new reporting relationships are established and as other companies may increasingly target our executives. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel, we do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies, and some members of our senior management team have fully vested the vast majority of their in-the-money equity incentives. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our new businesses all depend on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they would receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees whose stock option strike prices are substantially above current market prices. Similarly, decreases in the number of unvested in-the-money stock options held by existing employees, whether because our stock price has declined, options have vested, or because the size of follow-on option grants has declined, may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees. In the fourth quarter of 2008, we undertook a plan to reduce our global workforce to simplify and streamline our organization, improve our cost structure and strengthen our overall businesses. These changes have resulted in the recording of related accounting charges and could harm employee morale and productivity and be disruptive to our business. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our users could harm our business. A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our users list items, caching services that make our sites load faster, and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial interest in their success, while in other cases we have none. PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that link PayPal to the credit card and bank clearing networks. Similarly, Bill Me Later relies heavily on third parties to operate its services, including merchant processors and payment gateways to process transactions. Financial, regulatory, or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our users could reduce the number of listings on our websites or make completing transactions or payments on our websites more difficult, and thereby harm our business. Price increases by companies that provide services to our users (such as postal and delivery services) could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our users to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. Any security breach at one of these companies could also adversely affect our customers and harm our business. In addition, we have outsourced certain functions to third-party outside providers, including customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, reputation and operating results. Although we generally have been able to renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with third parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future, and there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to our users will continue to do so at reasonable rates or at all. In addition, the current recession in the U.S. and a worldwide economic slowdown may impact the ability of our outside service providers to fulfill their obligations to us or our users. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Measures we sometimes take to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our sites by making our sites more difficult to use or restricting the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage or train our customer support representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our customers’ confidence. Because it is providing a financial service and operating in a more regulated environment, PayPal, unlike eBay, must provide telephone as well as email customer support and must resolve certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of PayPal’s program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer’s account activity are identified by PayPal’s risk models as suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity with respect to its customer support and account restrictions, and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things, failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. If PayPal is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, PayPal’s users may have negative experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged, and it could become subject to additional litigation. As a result, current and future revenues could suffer, and its operating margins may decrease. In addition, negative publicity about, or negative experiences with, customer support for any of our businesses could cause our reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in our brands as a whole. Our industry is intensely competitive, and other companies or governmental agencies may allege that our behavior is anti-competitive. Marketplaces Marketplaces businesses currently or potentially compete with a number of companies providing both particular categories of goods and broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the future. The barriers to entry into these channels are relatively low and current offline and new competitors, including small businesses who want to create and promote their own stores, can easily launch online sites at a nominal cost using commercially available software or partnering with any one of a number of successful ecommerce companies. Our broad-based competitors include the vast majority of traditional department, warehouse, discount, and general merchandise stores (as well as the online operations of these traditional retailers), emerging online retailers, online classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline and online home shopping networks. Among others, these include: Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club, Amazon.com, Buy.com, AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC, and Home Shopping Network. A number of companies offer a variety of services that provide channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites such as craigslist (in which we own a minority equity stake), Google Base, Oodle.com and a number of International websites operated by Schibsted ASA. Our classifieds websites, including Kijiji, Marktplaats, mobile.de, Gumtree, Den Blå Avis and BilBasen offer classifieds listings in the U.S. and a variety of local international markets. In many markets in which they operate, including in the U.S., our classified platforms compete against more established online and offline classifieds platforms. In 2005, we acquired Shopping.com Ltd., an online shopping comparison site. Shopping.com competes with sites such as Buy.com, Google’s Product Search, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. Recent legal developments may affect the utility of shopping comparison sites if manufacturers begin requiring more uniformity in product pricing. In addition, sellers are increasingly utilizing multiple sales channels, including the acquisition of new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on search engine sites such as Google and Yahoo!. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to channel users to our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. We also compete with many local, regional, and national specialty retailers and exchanges in each of the major categories of products offered on our site. For example, category-specific competitors to offerings in our Jewelry & Watches category include: Bluenile.com, HSN.com, Ice.com, Jewelry Television, QVC.com, Ross-Simons, Signet/Sterling, Tiffany, Zales and a variety of online and offline independent jewelry and watch retailers. Our international Marketplaces websites compete with similar online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online ecommerce sites, such as Quelle and Otto in Germany, Leboncoin.fr and Price Minister in France, Tradus (recently acquired by Naspers) in Poland, Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan, Lotte, Naver and 11th Street in South Korea, Trading Post, OZtion and Aussie Bidder in Australia, and Amazon in the United Kingdom and other countries. In some of these countries, there are online sites that have much larger customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do, and in certain of these jurisdictions there are competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce than we do. The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the following: ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; trust in the seller and the transaction; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online competition, additional competitive factors include: community cohesion, interaction and size; website ease-of-use and accessibility; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online trading services may be acquired by, receive investments from, or enter into other commercial relationships with well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. Some of our competitors have offered services for free and others may do this as well. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. In addition, certain offline competitors may encourage manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their products to dealers who sell through online channels such as eBay, or may attempt to use existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods or services. The adoption by manufacturers or government authorities of policies or regulations discouraging the sales of goods or services over the Internet could force eBay users to stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased competition or anti- Internet distribution policies or regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brand. In order to respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that may be controversial with and lead to dissatisfaction among a number of our sellers, and which could harm our profitability. Conversely, other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S. or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Such claims, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort, and could result in significant judgments against us. In several jurisdictions, we have taken actions designed to improve the safety of transactions on our websites. Beginning in June 2008, we have required users in the UK to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized UK website, and since October 2008, we require sellers on eBay.com to accept one or more accepted payment methods (currently PayPal, credit or debit cards processed through Internet merchant accounts, ProPay, Moneybookers and Paymate) and no longer allow any forms of paper payment, including checks and money orders, to be listed by sellers in the U.S. for most categories of items. While these initiatives are intended to improve and make safer our users’ buying experience and/or increase activity on our sites, certain users may be negatively affected by or react negatively to these changes. We currently face inquiries from government regulators in various jurisdictions related to such actions. For example, the Reserve Bank of Australia recently reviewed our policies requiring sellers to offer PayPal as a payment alternative on most transactions on our localized Australian website and precluding them from imposing a surcharge or any other fee for accepting PayPal or other payment methods. We may face similar inquiries from other government regulators in the future. Any negative reaction to these changes by our users or government authorities could, among other things, force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business, operating results and profitability. In addition, certain competitors may offer or continue to offer free shipping or other transaction related services, which could be impractical or inefficient for eBay sellers to match. New technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer a lower cost service. Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with several large online services and search engine companies, these arrangements may not be renewed on commercially reasonable terms or these companies may decide to promote competitive services. Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in increased usage of our services. In addition, companies that control user access to transactions through network access, Internet browsers, or search engines, could promote our competitors, channel current or potential users to their vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their advertisers’ sites, attempt to restrict our access, or charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Search engines are increasingly becoming a starting point for online shopping, and as the costs of operating an online store decline, online sellers may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers conduct through our sites. PayPal The markets for PayPal’s product are intensely competitive and are subject to rapid technological change, including but not limited to: mobile payments, electronic funds transfer networks starting to allow Internet access, cross-border access to networks, creation of new networks, expansion of prepaid cards, and bill pay networks. PayPal competes with existing online and offline payment methods, including, among others: credit card merchant processors that offer their services to online merchants, including American Express, Chase Paymentech, First Data, and Wells Fargo; and payment gateways, including CyberSource and Authorize.net (which has merged with CyberSource); money remitters such as MoneyGram and Western Union; bill payment services, including CheckFree; processors that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account, including Certegy, eBillMe, Revolution Money and TeleCheck, a subsidiary of First Data, or to pay on credit; providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit cards, checks, money orders, and Automated Clearing House transactions; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including VisaBuxx, NetSpend and GreenDot; mobile payments, including Obopay, TextPayMe (a subsidiary of Amazon), Crandy, LUUP and Payforit; Amazon Payments, which offers online merchants the ability to accept credit card- and bank-funded payments from Amazon’s base of online customers on the merchant’s own website; Google Checkout, which enables the online payment of merchants using credit cards; and Payment services targeting users of social networks and online gaming, including Facebook and Hi5 credits, PlaySpan and Zong. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater name recognition, or a larger base of customers in affiliated businesses than PayPal. PayPal’s competitors may respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also be subject to lesser licensing, anti-money laundering, and other regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to additional regulations based on its licensure as a bank in Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google Checkout has offered free payments processing on transactions in an amount proportionate to certain advertising spending with Google. Competing services tied to established banks and other financial institutions may offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal. Overseas, PayPal faces competition from similar channels and payment methods. In each country, numerous banks provide standard online credit card acquiring and processing services, and these banks typically have leading market share. In addition, PayPal faces competition from Visa’s Visa Direct, MasterCard’s MoneySend, Royal Bank of Scotland’s World Pay and ClickandBuy in the EU, NOCHEX, Moneybookers, NETeller and FirePay in the United Kingdom, CertaPay and HyperWallet in Canada, Paymate, BPay and POLI in Australia, Alipay, YeePay and 99 Bill in China and Inicis in South Korea. In addition, in certain countries, such as Germany and Australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online and offline transactions. As in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and easily develop such a service. Some of PayPal’s competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First Data, American Express, and Royal Bank of Scotland, also provide processing or foreign exchange services to PayPal. If PayPal were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers, either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition, these processing and foreign exchange relationships could be negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services. Skype The market for Skype’s products is also intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. We expect Skype’s various communications competitors, including, for example, the providers of online communications products and telecommunications operators, to continue to improve the performance of their current products and introduce new products, software, services and technologies. Many telecommunications firms offer “bundled” services, where a group of services that may include cable or satellite television, internet services (e.g., cable modem or DSL), and telecommunications are offered for a single monthly price. If Skype’s competitors successfully introduce new products, offer “bundled” services or enhance their existing products, or reduce the pricing for their products this could reduce the market for Skype’s products, increase price competition, or make Skype’s products obsolete, which could lower Skype’s adoption rates, decrease its ability to attract new users or cause its current users to migrate to a competing company. Additionally, several of Skype’s current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, are substantially larger, and have greater financial, marketing, technical, and other resources. Some also have greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than Skype has. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites, including seasonal factors, national events and increased usage of other websites. Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. We would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly, our results of operations historically have been seasonal because many of our users reduce their activities on our websites with the onset of good weather during the summer months, and on and around national holidays. In addition, increased usage of social networking or other entertainment websites may decrease the amount of time users spend on our websites, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our failure to cost-effectively manage certain aspects of our business could harm us. We have expanded our headcount, facilities, and infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that further expansion in certain areas will be required for some of our businesses. This expansion has placed, and we expect it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. The areas that are put under strain by our growth include the following: Website Usability. User activity rates on our websites depend in part on the quality of our users’ experiences on those sites. The rapid growth in the number and complexity of products and features on our sites has occasionally caused users to become confused or overwhelmed or has otherwise impaired users’ experiences on those sites. We are in the process of making numerous improvements to our eBay websites, including an attempt to improve the user experience on those websites. These attempts at improvement could fail, or could decrease activity among users who had grown used to or preferred the existing experience on our sites. Any impairment of customer satisfaction as a result of site usability issues could lead to a loss of customers or impair our ability to add customers, either of which would harm our business. Website Stability. We must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our and our subsidiaries’ websites and the new products and features we regularly introduce. This upgrade process is expensive, and the increased complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology, features, transaction processing systems, security infrastructure, or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume could harm our business. Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer support, impaired quality of users’ experiences of our services, impaired quality of services for third-party application developers using our externally accessible Application Programming Interface, or API, and delays in reporting accurate financial information. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do so could result in problems on our sites. Further, steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our margins, and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. Customer Account Billing. Our revenues depend on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed on any of our websites would harm our business and our ability to collect revenue. Customer Support. We seek to become more efficient in providing our customer support operations. We intend to provide an increased level of support (including an increasing amount of telephone support) in a cost-effective manner. If we are unable to provide customer support in a cost-effective manner, users of our websites may have negative experiences, current and future revenues could suffer, our costs may increase and our operating margins may decrease. We must continue to effectively hire, train, and manage new employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. This is a special challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. Any capital investments that we may make will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in the short term. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Like many other multinational corporations, we are subject to tax in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions and have structured our operations to reduce our effective tax rate. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of investigations, audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world, including with respect to our tax structure. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our business, operating results and financial condition, and the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. While we have established reserves based on assumptions and estimates that we believe are reasonable to cover such eventualities, these reserves may prove to be insufficient in the event that any taxing authority is successful in asserting tax positions that are contrary to our positions. In addition, the economic downturn has reduced tax revenues for U.S federal and state governments, and proposals to increase taxes from corporate entities are being considered at various levels of government. Among the options has been a proposal to modify the federal tax rules related to the imposition of U.S federal corporate income taxes for companies operating in multiple U.S and foreign tax jurisdictions. The goal is to increase the corporate income tax collections from companies operating in multiple U.S. and foreign tax jurisdictions. If such proposals are enacted into law, this could increase our effective tax rate. A number of U.S states have likewise attempted to increase corporate tax revenues by taking an expansive view of corporate presence in order to attempt to impose corporate income taxes and other direct business taxes on companies that have no physical presence in their state. Companies that operate over the Internet, such as eBay, are a target of some of their state efforts. If more states were successful in applying direct taxes to Internet companies that are not present in the state, this could increase of our effective tax rate. We depend on the continued growth of online commerce and communications. The business of selling goods over the Internet, particularly through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns about fraud, privacy, and other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting the Internet as a medium of commerce. In countries such as the U.S., Germany and the U.K., where our services and online commerce generally have been available for some time and the level of market penetration of our services is high, acquiring new users for our services may be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. In order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods and may prefer Internet analogues to such traditional retail means to our offerings, such as the retailer’s own website. If these consumers prove to be less active than our earlier users, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely impacted. Our business depends on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our services will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” malware and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have been the targets of such programs. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services. We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately. We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on federal, state and common law rights, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions to protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our trademarks, patents, and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. For example, Skype is in the process of applying to register the Skype name as a trademark worldwide. In the EU, Skype’s application is being opposed. If these oppositions to Skype’s applications were to be successful, Skype’s ability to protect its brand against third-party infringers would be compromised. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including land and buildings related to our operations. We have little experience in managing real property. Ownership of this property subjects us to risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; disruptions to our operations resulting from possible natural disasters, interruptions in utilities and similar events; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the commercial property markets, or other factors; the possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability act, or other requirements; and possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control.",0.997060353697,0.853674328262
29,1065088, EBAY , 2008-07-24 ,2008,2," Risk Factors That May Affect Results of Operations and Financial Condition The risks and uncertainties described below are not the only ones facing us. Other events that we do not currently anticipate or that we currently deem immaterial also may affect our results of operations and financial condition. Our operating results may fluctuate. Our operating results have varied on a quarterly basis during our operating history. Our operating results may fluctuate significantly as a result of a variety of factors, many of which are outside our control. Factors that may affect our operating results include the following: our ability to retain an active user base, attract new users, and encourage existing users to list items for sale, purchase items through our websites, or use our payment service or communication software and products; our ability to increase activity of the users of our Marketplaces business, especially with respect to our top buyers and sellers, in our most mature geographies, especially the U.S., Germany and the U.K.; the volume, size, timing, monetization, and completion rates of transactions using our websites or technology; the amount and timing of operating costs and capital expenditures relating to the maintenance and expansion of our businesses, operations, and infrastructure; the effect of recently announced and possible future changes to our pricing, products and policies, including, among other changes: a reduced emphasis on upfront fees (e.g., insertion fees for listings) and corresponding increases in success-based fees (e.g., final value fees for sold items); new algorithms for determining which listings appear at the top of searches (Best Match); changes to buyer and seller feedback criteria; tighter seller standards, which may restrict some sellers from selling on our websites even if they have been able to do so historically; new restrictions or holds on payments made to certain sellers or in connection with certain categories of higher-risk transactions; new incentives and rewards for top PowerSellers; and, beginning in the fall of 2008, increased protection for buyers who pay for eligible transactions on eBay.com using PayPal,as well as improved seller protection for U.S. eBay sellers against claims, chargebacks and reversals; regulatory and legal actions imposing obligations on our businesses or our users, including the injunction related to certain cosmetic and perfume brands (see “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings” above); new laws or regulations, or interpretations of existing laws or regulations, that impose liability on us for actions of our users or otherwise harm our business models or restrict the Internet, electronic commerce, online payments, or online communications; the effect of recently announced management changes; general economic conditions, including higher inflation, interest rate fluctuations, and the possibility of a recession in the U.S., and a worldwide economic slowdown, as well as those economic conditions specific to the Internet and ecommerce industries; the actions of our competitors, including the introduction of new sites, services, and products; consumer confidence in the safety and security of transactions using our websites or technology and our ability to manage the costs of our user protection programs; our ability to manage PayPal’s transaction loss rate and payment funding mix; the costs and results of litigation that involves us; our ability to successfully integrate and manage businesses that we acquire; the cost and availability of online and traditional advertising, and the success of our brand building and marketing campaigns; our ability to develop product enhancements, programs, and features at a reasonable cost and in a timely manner; our ability to upgrade and develop our systems, infrastructure, and customer service capabilities to accommodate growth and to improve our websites at a reasonable cost while maintaining 24/7 operations; technical difficulties or service interruptions involving our websites or services provided to us or our users by third parties; our ability to comply with the requirements of entities whose services are required for our operations, such as credit card networks and banks; our ability to increase the acceptance of PayPal by online merchants outside of our Marketplaces platforms, which may require long implementation cycles and incentives to merchants that are initially dilutive; our ability to manage, profitably expand and effectively monetize the Skype business; our ability to attract new personnel in a timely and effective manner and to retain key employees; the continued healthy operation of our technology suppliers and other parties with which we have commercial relations; continued consumer acceptance of the Internet as a medium for commerce and communication in the face of increasing publicity about fraud, spoofing, phishing, viruses, spyware, and other dangers of the Internet; and macroeconomic and geopolitical events such as recession, commodity inflation, war, threat of war, or terrorist actions. The increased variety of services offered on our websites makes it difficult for us to forecast the level or source of our revenues or earnings accurately. In view of the rapidly evolving nature of our business, we believe that period-to-period comparisons of our operating results may not be meaningful, and you should not rely upon them as an indication of future performance. We do not have backlog, and substantially all of our net revenues each quarter come from transactions involving sales or payments during that quarter. Due to the inherent difficulty in forecasting revenues, it is also difficult to forecast income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues. Quarterly and annual income statement expenses as a percentage of net revenues may be significantly different from historical or projected rates. Our operating results in one or more future quarters may fall below the expectations of securities analysts and investors. In that event, the trading price of our common stock would almost certainly decline. We may not maintain our level of profitability or rates of growth. We believe that our continued profitability and growth will depend in large part on our ability to do the following: attract new users, keep existing users active and reactivate former users on our websites and services, and increase the activity levels of our active users, despite an ever-increasing range of competitive choices for our users; react to changes in consumer use of the Internet and changing customer demands, develop new services as well as new sources of revenues from our existing services, and meet higher competitive standards from other Internet businesses, improved Internet capabilities of traditional brick-and-mortar retailers, and improved capabilities for small businesses who want to create and promote their own Internet stores; manage the costs of our business, including the costs associated with our workforce and with maintaining and enhancing our websites, customer support, transaction loss rate, user protection programs, product development and international expansion; and provide our customers with superior community, customer support, and trading, communication, and payment experiences. We invest heavily in marketing and promotion, customer support, and further development of the operating infrastructure for our core and recently acquired operations. Some of this investment entails long-term contractual commitments. As a result, we may be unable to adjust our spending rapidly enough to compensate for any unexpected revenue shortfall, which may harm our profitability. Growth rates in our most established markets, such as the U.S., Germany and the U.K., have continued to decline. Despite our efforts to stem these declines, growth rates in these and other markets may continue to decline and may become negative. As our penetration in established markets grows, we will increasingly need to focus on keeping existing users, especially our top buyers and sellers, active and increasing their activity level on our sites in order to continue to grow our business. In addition, our Marketplaces business is facing increased competitive pressure. If we are unable to change our services in ways that reflect the changing demands of the ecommerce marketplace, particularly the higher growth of sales of fixed-price items, our business will suffer. In January 2008, for example, we announced significant changes to our Marketplaces business in three major areas: fee structure, seller incentives and standards and buyer and seller feedback. In June 2008, we announced increased buyer and seller protections in the U.S. We may make further changes in these or other areas in the future. Some of the changes that we have announced to date have been controversial with many of our sellers, and additional changes that we announce in the future may prove to be similarly controversial. If any of these changes cause sellers to move their business away from our websites or otherwise fail to improve gross merchandise volume or the number of successful listings, our operating results and profitability will be harmed. In addition, because a large percentage of PayPal transactions originate on the eBay platform, declines in growth rates in major Marketplaces markets also adversely affect PayPal’s growth rate. The expected future growth of our PayPal, Skype, StubHub, Shopping.com, and other lower margin businesses may also cause downward pressure on our profit margins because those businesses have lower gross margins than our Marketplaces platforms. We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates. Because we conduct a significant and growing portion of our business outside the United States but report our results in U.S. dollars, we face exposure to adverse movements in currency exchange rates. In connection with its multi-currency service, PayPal fixes exchange rates twice per day, and may face financial exposure if it incorrectly fixes the exchange rate or if exposure reports are delayed. PayPal also holds some corporate and customer funds in non-U.S. currencies, and thus its financial results are affected by the translation of these non-U.S. currencies into U.S. dollars. In addition, the results of operations of many of our internationally focused websites are exposed to foreign exchange rate fluctuations as the financial results of the applicable subsidiaries are translated from the local currency into U.S. dollars upon consolidation. If the U.S. dollar weakens against foreign currencies, the translation of these foreign currency denominated transactions will result in increased net revenues, operating expenses, and net income. Similarly, our net revenues, operating expenses, and net income will be negatively impacted if the U.S. dollar strengthens against foreign currencies. Based on changes in foreign currency rates year over year, net revenues in the three months ended June 30, 2008 were positively impacted by foreign currency translation of $120.6 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. Based on changes in foreign currency rates year over year, operating income for the three months ended June 30, 2008 was positively impacted by foreign currency translation of $69.0 million, compared to the same period of the prior fiscal year. As exchange rates vary, net sales and other operating results, when translated, may differ materially from expectations. In particular, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, British pound, Australian dollar, and Canadian dollar, our foreign revenues and profits will be reduced as a result of these translation adjustments. While from time to time we enter into transactions to hedge portions of our foreign currency translation exposure, it is impossible to perfectly predict or completely eliminate the effects of this exposure. In addition, to the extent the U.S. dollar strengthens against the Euro, the British pound, the Australian dollar, and the Canadian dollar, cross-border trade related to purchases of dollar-denominated goods by non-U.S. purchasers may decrease, and that decrease may not be offset by a corresponding increase in cross-border trade involving purchases by U.S. buyers of goods denominated in other currencies. In addition, we face exposure to fluctuations in interest rates. For example, reductions in interest rates reduce our investment income, which in turn would lower our net interest income. The listing or sale by our users of pirated or counterfeit items may harm our business. We have received in the past, and we anticipate receiving in the future, communications alleging that certain items listed or sold through our service by our users infringe third-party copyrights, trademarks and trade names, or other intellectual property rights. Although we have sought to work actively with the owners of intellectual property rights to eliminate listings offering infringing items on our websites, some rights owners have expressed the view that our efforts are insufficient. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners have been active in asserting their purported rights against online companies, including eBay. Allegations of infringement of intellectual property rights have resulted in threats of litigation and actual litigation against us from time to time, including litigation brought by Tiffany & Co. in the U.S., Rolex S.A. in Germany, Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture in France, L’Oréal SA, Lancôme Parfums et Beauté & Cie, and Laboratoire Garnier & Cie in several European countries, and a number of others. The plaintiffs in these cases seek to hold eBay liable for alleged counterfeit items listed on our sites by third parties, for “tester” and other not for resale consumer products listed on our sites by third parties, for the alleged misuse of trademarks in listings or in connection with paid search advertisements, or for alleged violations of selective distribution channel laws or parallel import laws for listings of authentic items. Such plaintiffs seek, among other things, injunctive relief and damages. In the aggregate, these suits could result in significant damage awards and could adversely affect our business. Other luxury brand owners have also filed suit against us or have threatened to do so. In June 2008, the Paris Court of Commerce ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that eBay and eBay International AG were liable for failing to prevent the sale of counterfeit items on its websites that traded on plaintiffs’ brand names and for interfering with the plaintiffs’ selective distribution network. The court awarded plaintiffs approximately EUR 38.6 million in damages and issued an injunction prohibiting all sales of perfumes and cosmetics bearing the Dior, Guerlain, Givenchy and Kenzo brands over all worldwide eBay sites to the extent they are accessible from France. We have taken measures to comply with the injunction and we intend to appeal these rulings. However, these and similar suits may force us to modify our business practices, which could lower our revenue, increase our costs or make our websites less convenient to our customers. Any such results could materially harm our business. In addition to litigation from rights owners, we may be subject to regulatory, civil or criminal proceedings and penalties if the authorities feel we have aided in the sale of counterfeit goods. While we have had some early success in defending against such litigation, more recent cases have been based, at least in part, on different legal theories than those of earlier cases, and there is no guarantee that we will continue to be successful in defending against such litigation. For example, the German Federal Supreme Court has ruled against us in the Rolex and IVD cases. Plaintiffs in recent cases have argued that we are not entitled to safe harbors under the Digital Millennium Copyright Act in the U.S. or as a hosting provider in the European Union because of the alleged active nature of our involvement with our sellers, and that, whether or not such safe harbors are available, we should be found liable because we supposedly have not adequately removed counterfeit listings or effectively suspended users who have created such listings. Over the years we are constantly improving and modifying our efforts to eliminate counterfeit and pirated items. These improvements are in response to ongoing business initiatives designed to reduce bad buyer experiences and improve customer satisfaction as well as in response to new patterns we are seeing among counterfeiters and others committing fraud on our users. Notwithstanding these efforts, we believe that the legal climate, especially in Europe, is becoming more adverse to our arguments, which may require us to take actions which could lower our revenues, increase our costs, or make our websites less convenient to our customers. This may materially harm our business. Content owners and other intellectual property rights owners may also seek to bring legal action against entities that are peripherally involved in the sale of infringing items, such as payment companies. To the extent that intellectual property rights owners bring legal action against PayPal based upon the use of PayPal’s payment services in a transaction involving the sale of infringing items, including on our websites, our business could be harmed. Litigation and negative publicity has increased as our websites gain prominence in markets outside of the U.S., where the laws may be unsettled or less favorable to us. Such litigation is costly for us, could result in damage awards, injunctive relief, or increased costs of doing business through adverse judgment or settlement, could require us to change our business practices in expensive ways, or could otherwise harm our business. Litigation against other online companies could result in interpretations of the law that could also require us to change our business practices or otherwise increase our costs. In addition, a public perception that counterfeit or pirated items are commonplace on our site, even if factually incorrect, could damage our reputation and our business. We are subject to patent litigation. We have repeatedly been sued for allegedly infringing other parties’ patents. Some of these ongoing suits are described under the heading “Item 1 — Legal Proceedings,” above. We are a defendant in other patent suits and we have been notified of several other potential patent disputes, and expect that we will increasingly be subject to patent infringement claims as our services expand in scope and complexity. In particular, we expect that we may face additional patent infringement claims involving various aspects of our Marketplaces, Payments and Communications segments. These claims, whether meritorious or not, are time consuming and costly to resolve, and could require expensive changes in our methods of doing business, could require us to enter into costly royalty or licensing agreements, or could require us to cease conducting certain operations. Use of our services for illegal purposes could harm our business. The law relating to the liability of providers of online services for the activities of their users on their service is often challenged in the U.S. and internationally. In violation of our policies, unlawful goods have been listed and traded on our services. We may be unable to prevent our users from selling unlawful goods or services or selling goods or services in an unlawful manner, and we may be subject to allegations of civil or criminal liability for unlawful activities carried out by users through our services. We have been subject to several lawsuits based upon such allegations. In December 2004, an executive of Baazee.com, our Indian subsidiary, was arrested (and later released) in connection with a user’s listing of a pornographic video clip on that website. We continue to contest the charges related to this arrest. Similarly, our Korean subsidiary and one of its employees were found criminally liable for listings on the Korean subsidiary’s website. The German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may have a duty to take reasonable measures to prevent prohibited DVDs from being sold on our site to minors and that competitors may be able to enforce this duty. In a number of circumstances, third parties have alleged that our services aid and abet certain violations of certain laws, including antiscalping laws with respect to the resale of tickets, laws regarding the sale of counterfeit items, and restrictive distribution laws and distance selling laws. Although we have prohibited the listing of certain items and implemented other protective measures, in the future, we may be required to spend substantial resources to take additional protective measures or discontinue certain service offerings, any of which could harm our business. Any costs incurred as a result of potential liability relating to the alleged sale of unlawful goods or the unlawful sale of goods could harm our business. In addition, we have received significant and continuing media attention relating to the listing or sale of unlawful goods using our services. This negative publicity, even if factually incorrect, could damage our reputation and diminish the value of our brand names. It also could make users reluctant to use our services.  PayPal’s payment system is also susceptible to potentially illegal or improper uses. These may include illegal online gambling, fraudulent sales of goods or services, illicit sales of prescription medications or controlled substances, piracy of software and other intellectual property, money laundering, bank fraud, child pornography trafficking, prohibited sales of alcoholic beverages or tobacco products, and online securities fraud. Recent changes in law have increased the penalties for intermediaries providing payment services for certain illegal activities. Despite measures PayPal has taken to detect and lessen the risk of this kind of conduct, including PayPal’s ability to take legal action to recover its losses for certain violations of its acceptable use policy, illegal activities could still be funded using PayPal. Current or future anti-money laundering laws could increase PayPal’s costs or require it to change its processes. PayPal is subject to anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations that prohibit, among other things, its involvement in transferring the proceeds of criminal activities. Although PayPal has adopted a program to comply with these laws and regulations, any errors or failure to implement the program properly could lead to lawsuits, administrative action, and prosecution by the government. In July 2003, PayPal agreed with the U.S. Attorney for the Eastern District of Missouri that it would pay $10 million as a civil forfeiture to settle allegations that its provision of services to online gambling merchants violated provisions of the USA PATRIOT Act and further agreed to have its compliance program reviewed by an independent audit firm. PayPal is also subject to regulations that require it to report suspicious activities involving transactions of $2,000 or more and may be required to obtain and keep more detailed records on the senders and recipients in certain transfers of $3,000 or more. The interpretation of suspicious activities in this context is uncertain. Future regulations under the USA PATRIOT Act may require PayPal to revise the procedures it uses to verify the identity of its customers and to monitor international transactions more closely. As PayPal localizes its service in other countries, additional verification and reporting requirements may apply, which in some cases are more stringent. Several countries, including Australia, Canada and Luxembourg, are in the process of implementing new anti-money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws and regulations, and the impact of these laws and regulations on PayPal’s business is uncertain. These regulations could impose significant costs on PayPal and make it more difficult for new customers to join its network. PayPal could be required to learn more about its customers before opening an account, to obtain additional verification of customers and to monitor its customers’ activities more closely. These requirements, as well as any additional restrictions imposed by credit card networks, could raise PayPal’s costs significantly and reduce the attractiveness of its product. Failure to comply with federal, state or foreign country money laundering and counter-terrorist financing laws could result in significant criminal and civil lawsuits, penalties, and forfeiture of significant assets. We are subject to risks associated with information disseminated through our service. The law relating to the liability of online services companies for information carried on or disseminated through their services is often unsettled. Claims could be made against online services companies under both U.S. and foreign law for defamation, libel, invasion of privacy, negligence, copyright or trademark infringement, or other theories based on the nature and content of the materials disseminated through their services. Several private lawsuits seeking to impose liability upon us under a number of these theories have been brought against us. In addition, domestic and foreign legislation has been proposed that would prohibit or impose liability for the transmission over the Internet of certain types of information. Our service features a Feedback Forum, which includes information from users regarding other users. Although all such feedback is generated by users and not by us, claims of defamation or other injury have been made in the past and could be made in the future against us for content posted in the Feedback Forum. Several court decisions arguably have narrowed the scope of the immunity provided to Internet service providers like us under the Communications Decency Act. For example, the Ninth Circuit recently held that certain immunity provisions under the Communications Decency Act might not apply to the extent that a website owner materially contributes to the development of unlawful content on its website. In addition, the Paris Court of Commerce has ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that applicable laws protecting passive internet “hosts” from liability are inapplicable to eBay given that the content in question was provided by users under eBay’s control and authority. This trend, if continued, may increase our potential liability to third parties for the user-provided content on our sites. Our liability for such claims may be higher in jurisdictions outside the U.S. where laws governing Internet transactions are unsettled. If we become liable for information provided by our users and carried on our service in any jurisdiction in which we operate, we could be directly harmed and we may be forced to implement new measures to reduce our exposure to this liability. This may require us to expend substantial resources or to discontinue certain service offerings, which would negatively affect our financial results. In addition, the increased attention focused upon liability issues as a result of these lawsuits and legislative proposals could harm our reputation or otherwise impact the growth of our business. Any costs incurred as a result of this potential liability could harm our business. Government inquiries may lead to charges or penalties. A large number of transactions occur on our websites. Government regulators have received a significant number of consumer complaints about both eBay and PayPal, which, while small as a percentage of our total transactions, are large in aggregate numbers. As a result, from time to time we have been contacted by various foreign and domestic governmental regulatory agencies that have questions about our operations and the steps we take to protect our users from fraud. PayPal has received inquiries regarding its restriction and disclosure practices from the Federal Trade Commission and regarding these and other business practices from the attorneys general of a number of states. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, increase educational messaging to users about funding choices, and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. We may also face governmental inquiries related to actions that we take designed to improve the safety of transactions on our websites, most notably by requiring PayPal to be offered and/or used for certain transactions or by certain sellers. We are likely to receive additional inquiries from regulatory agencies in the future, which may lead to action against us. We have responded to all inquiries from regulatory agencies by describing our current and planned antifraud efforts, customer support procedures, operating procedures and disclosures. If one or more of these agencies is not satisfied with our response to current or future inquiries, we could be subject to enforcement actions, fines or other penalties, or forced to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business. We are subject to general litigation and regulatory disputes. From time to time, we are involved in other disputes or regulatory inquiries that arise in the ordinary course of business. The number and significance of these disputes and inquiries are increasing as our business expands and our company grows larger. We have in the past been forced to litigate such claims. We may also become more vulnerable to third-party claims as laws such as the Digital Millennium Copyright Act, the Lanham Act and the Communications Decency Act are interpreted by the courts and as we expand geographically into jurisdictions where the underlying laws with respect to the potential liability of online intermediaries such as ourselves are either unclear or less favorable. In Germany, the German Federal Supreme Court has ruled that we may owe duties, under certain circumstances, to content owners and competitors relating to taking reasonable steps to prevent the listing of illegal, counterfeit, and pirated items. In June 2008, the Paris Court of Commerce ruled in the Louis Vuitton Malletier and Christian Dior Couture cases that eBay and eBay International AG were liable for failing to prevent the sale of counterfeit items on its websites that traded on plaintiffs’ brand names and for interfering with the plaintiffs’ selective distribution network. The scope of these duties is being defined by the courts, including appellate courts, and the ultimate impact on us is uncertain, but may require us to increase our level of filtering and review for these items, thereby increasing our costs. Any claims or regulatory actions against us, whether meritorious or not, could be time consuming, result in costly litigation, require significant amounts of management time, and result in the diversion of significant operational resources. Failure to deal effectively with fraudulent transactions and customer disputes would increase our loss rate and harm our business. PayPal’s highly automated and liquid payment service makes PayPal an attractive target for fraud. In configuring its service, PayPal continually strives to maintain the right balance of appropriate measures to promote both convenience and security for customers. Identity thieves and those committing fraud using stolen credit card or bank account numbers can potentially steal large amounts of money from businesses such as PayPal. We believe that several of PayPal’s current and former competitors in the electronic payments business have gone out of business or significantly restricted their businesses largely due to losses from this type of fraud. While PayPal uses advanced anti-fraud technologies, we expect that technically knowledgeable criminals will continue to attempt to circumvent PayPal’s anti-fraud systems. In addition, PayPal’s service could be subject to employee fraud or other internal security breaches, and PayPal may be required to reimburse customers for any funds stolen as a result of such breaches. Merchants could also request reimbursement, or stop using PayPal, if they are affected by buyer fraud. PayPal incurs substantial losses from merchant fraud, including claims from customers that merchants have not performed or that their goods or services do not match the merchant’s description. PayPal also incurs losses from claims that the customer did not authorize the purchase, from buyer fraud, from erroneous transmissions, and from customers who have closed bank accounts or have insufficient funds in them to satisfy payments. In addition to the direct costs of such losses, if they are related to credit card transactions and become excessive, they could result in PayPal losing the right to accept credit cards for payment. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease, in which case our business would further suffer. PayPal was assessed substantial fines for excess chargebacks in 2001, and excessive chargebacks may arise in the future. PayPal has taken measures to detect and reduce the risk of fraud, but these measures need to be continually improved and may not be effective against new forms of fraud or in connection with new product offerings. If these measures do not succeed, our business will suffer. PayPal currently offers a buyer protection program for transactions on eBay.com that refunds up to $2,000 to buyers who used PayPal in transactions with selected sellers if the buyer did not receive the goods they purchased or if the goods differed significantly from what was described by the seller and up to $200 in most other eBay transactions. PayPal also offers a similar program in many eBay international marketplaces, in most cases with lower reimbursement amounts. In June 2008, we announced that beginning in the fall of 2008, buyers who pay for transactions on eBay.com with PayPal will be protected on eligible transactions for the full amount of an item’s purchase price if the buyer does not receive the goods they purchased or if the goods differ significantly from what was described by the seller. Furthermore, U.S. sellers on eBay.com will receive improved seller protection for eligible transactions in which the seller is paid with PayPal, in that they will be covered against payment reversals due to buyer claims of an unauthorized payment or an item that was not received, so long as the seller delivers to the address that the buyer provided to PayPal. We will also offer enhanced buyer and seller protections in some eBay international marketplaces The recently announced changes to PayPal’s buyer protection program could result in future increases and fluctuations in PayPal’s transaction loss rate. For the full year ended December 31, 2007 and the six months ended June 30, 2008, PayPal’s transaction loss (including both direct losses and buyer protection payouts) totaled $139.3 million and $74.6 million, representing 0.29% and 0.25% of PayPal’s TPV, respectively. eBay faces similar risks with respect to fraudulent activities on its websites. eBay periodically receives complaints from users who may not have received the goods that they had purchased. In some cases individuals have been arrested and convicted for fraudulent activities using our websites. eBay also receives complaints from sellers who have not received payment for the goods that a buyer had contracted to purchase. Non-payment may occur because of miscommunication, because a buyer has changed his or her mind and decided not to honor the contract to purchase the item, or because the buyer bid on the item maliciously in order to harm either the seller or eBay. In some European and Asian jurisdictions, buyers may also have the right to withdraw from a sale made by a professional seller within a specified time period. While sometimes eBay can suspend the accounts of users who fail to fulfill their payment or delivery obligations to other users, eBay does not have the ability to require users to make payment or deliver goods, or otherwise make users whole other than through our limited buyer protection programs. Other than through these programs, eBay does not compensate users who believe they have been defrauded by other users, although users who pay through PayPal may have reimbursement rights from their credit card company or bank, which in turn will seek reimbursement from PayPal. eBay also periodically receives complaints from buyers as to the quality of the goods purchased. We expect to continue to receive communications from users requesting reimbursement or threatening or commencing legal action against us if no reimbursement is made. Our liability for these sort of claims is only beginning to be clarified in some jurisdictions and may be higher in some non-U.S. jurisdictions than it is in the U.S. Litigation involving liability for third-party actions could be costly for us, divert management attention, result in increased costs of doing business, lead to adverse judgments, or otherwise harm our business. In addition, affected users will likely complain to regulatory agencies that could take action against us, including imposing fines or seeking injunctions. Negative publicity and user sentiment generated as a result of fraudulent or deceptive conduct by users of our eBay and PayPal services could damage our reputation, reduce our ability to attract new users or retain our current users, and diminish the value of our brand names. We believe that negative user experiences are one of the primary reasons users stop using our services. Any factors which reduce cross-border trade could harm our business. Cross-border transactions using our websites generally provide higher gross margins than similar transactions that take place within a single country due to higher transaction fees we earn for those transactions. Cross-border trade has become an increasingly important source of both revenue and profits for us. To the extent that any factors, including fluctuations in exchange rates or the application of specific national or regional laws to users in other countries, result in a net reduction in cross-border trade, our business would suffer. Our business is subject to online security risks, including security breaches and identity theft. To succeed, online commerce and communications must provide a secure transmission of confidential information over public networks. Our security measures may not detect or prevent security breaches that could harm our business. Currently, a significant number of our users authorize us to bill their credit card accounts directly for all transaction fees charged by us. PayPal’s users routinely provide credit card and other financial information. We rely on encryption and authentication technology licensed from third parties to provide the security and authentication to effect secure transmission of confidential information, including customer credit card numbers. Advances in computer capabilities, new discoveries in the field of cryptography or other developments may result in a compromise or breach of the technology used by us to protect transaction data. In addition, any party who is able to illicitly obtain a user’s password could access the user’s transaction data. An increasing number of websites have reported breaches of their security. Any compromise of our security could harm our reputation and, therefore, our business, and could result in a violation of applicable privacy and other laws. In addition, a party that is able to circumvent our security measures could misappropriate proprietary information, cause interruption in our operations, damage our computers or those of our users, or otherwise damage our reputation and business. Under credit card rules and our contract with our card processors, if there is a breach of credit card information that we store, or that is stored by PayPal’s direct credit card processing customers, we could be liable to the credit card issuing banks for their cost of issuing new cards and related expenses. In addition, if we fail to follow credit card industry security standards, even if there is no compromise of customer information, we could incur significant fines or lose our ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments or pay their fees. If we were unable to accept credit cards, our business would be seriously damaged. eBay’s Korean subsidiary, IAC, has notified a majority of its approximately 20 million users of a data breach involving personally identifiable information including name, address, resident registration number and some transaction and refund data (but not including credit card information or real time banking information). Approximately 135,000 users have sued IAC over this breach in several lawsuits and we expect more to do so in the future. There is some precedent in Korea for a court to grant “consolation money” for data breaches without a specific finding of harm from the breach. Such precedents have involved payments of up to approximately $200 per user. IAC intends to vigorously defend itself in this lawsuit. Our servers are also vulnerable to computer viruses, physical or electronic break-ins, and similar disruptions, and we have experienced “denial-of-service” type attacks on our system that have made all or portions of our websites unavailable for periods of time. We may need to expend significant resources to protect against security breaches or to address problems caused by breaches. These issues are likely to become more difficult as we expand the number of places where we operate. Security breaches, including any breach that results in the release of our users’ personal information, could damage our reputation and expose us to a risk of loss or litigation and possible liability. Our insurance policies carry low coverage limits, which may not be adequate to reimburse us for losses caused by security breaches. Our users, as well as those of other prominent Internet companies, have been and will continue to be targeted by parties using fraudulent “spoof” and “phishing” emails to misappropriate passwords, credit card numbers, or other personal information or to introduce viruses through “trojan horse” programs to our users’ computers. These emails appear to be legitimate emails sent by eBay, PayPal, Skype, or a user of one of those businesses, but direct recipients to fake websites operated by the sender of the email or request that the recipient send a password or other confidential information via email or download a program. Despite our efforts to mitigate “spoof” emails through product improvements and user education, “spoof” and “phishing” remain a serious problem that may damage our brand, discourage use of our websites, and increase our costs. Changes in regulations or user concerns regarding privacy and protection of user data could adversely affect our business. We are subject to laws relating to the collection, use, retention, security and transfer of personally identifiable information about our users, especially for financial information and for users located outside of the U.S. In many cases, these laws apply not only to third-party transactions but also to transfers of information between ourselves and our subsidiaries, and between ourselves, our subsidiaries, and other parties with which we have commercial relations. New laws in this area have been passed by several jurisdictions, and other jurisdictions are considering imposing additional restrictions. The interpretation and application of user data protection laws are in a state of flux. These laws may be interpreted and applied inconsistently from country to country and our current data protection policies and practices may not be consistent with those interpretations and applications. Complying with these varying international requirements could cause us to incur substantial costs or require us to change our business practices in a manner adverse to our business. In addition, we have and post on our websites our own privacy policies and practices concerning the collection, use and disclosure of user data. Any failure, or perceived failure, by us to comply with our posted privacy policies or with any regulatory requirements or orders or other federal, state or international privacy or consumer protection-related laws and regulations could result in proceedings or actions against us by governmental entities or others, subject us to significant penalties and negative publicity and adversely affect us. In addition, as noted above, we are subject to the possibility of security breaches, which themselves may result in a violation of these laws. Our revenue from advertising is subject to factors beyond our control. We derive an increasing portion of our revenues from advertising on our websites. Revenues from online advertising are sensitive to events and trends that affect advertising expenditures, such as general changes in the economy and changes in consumer spending, as well as the effectiveness of online advertising versus offline advertising media and the value our websites provide to advertisers relative to other websites. If we experience a reduction in our advertising revenues due to economic, competitive, technological or other factors, including a reduction in consumer spending due to the possibility of a recession in the U.S. and a worldwide economic slowdown or if we are unable to provide value to our advertisers, our business and financial results would suffer. Our growth will depend on our ability to develop our brands, and these efforts may be costly. Our historical growth has been largely attributable to word of mouth, and to frequent and high visibility national and local media coverage. We believe that continuing to strengthen our brands will be critical to achieving widespread acceptance of our services, and will require a continued focus on active marketing efforts across all of our brands. The demand for and cost of online and traditional advertising have been increasing, and may continue to increase. Accordingly, we will need to continue to spend substantial amounts of money on, and devote substantial resources to, advertising, marketing, and other efforts to create and maintain brand loyalty among users. Since 2004, we have significantly increased the number of brands we are supporting, adding Rent.com, Shopping.com, Kijiji, StubHub, and Skype, among others. Each of these brands requires its own resources, increasing the costs of our branding efforts. Brand promotion activities may not yield increased revenues, and even if they do, any increased revenues may not offset the expenses incurred in building our brands. Also, major search engine operators that we use to advertise our brands have frequently-changing rules that govern their pricing, availability and placement of online advertisement (e.g., paid search, keywords), and changes to these rules could negatively affect our use of online advertising to promote our brands. If we do attract new users to our services, they may not conduct transactions using our services on a regular basis. If we fail to promote and maintain our brands, or if we incur substantial expenses in an unsuccessful attempt to promote and maintain our brands, our business would be harmed. New and existing regulations could harm our business. We are subject to the same foreign and domestic laws as other companies conducting business on and off the Internet. It is not always clear how existing laws governing issues such as property ownership, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property issues, parallel imports and distribution controls, taxation, libel and defamation, obscenity, and personal privacy apply to online businesses such as ours. The majority of these laws were adopted prior to the advent of the Internet and related technologies and, as a result, do not contemplate or address the unique issues of the Internet and related technologies. Those laws that do reference the Internet, such as the U.S. Digital Millennium Copyright Act and the European Union’s Directive on Distance Selling and Electronic Commerce, are being interpreted by the courts, but their applicability and scope remain uncertain. Furthermore, as our activities and the types of goods and services listed on our websites expand, including through acquisitions such as our acquisition of StubHub, an online ticket marketplace, in February 2007, regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from conducting our business in their jurisdiction, either with respect to our services in general, or with respect the sale of certain items, such as real estate, event tickets, cultural goods, boats, and automobiles. Our success and increased visibility has driven some existing businesses that perceive our business model to be a threat to their business to raise concerns about our business models to policymakers and regulators, particularly in the U.S. and Europe. These established businesses and their trade association groups employ significant resources in their efforts to shape the legal and regulatory regimes in countries where we have significant operations. They may employ these resources in an effort to change the legal and regulatory regimes in ways intended to reduce the effectiveness of our businesses and the ability of users to use our products and services. In particular, these established businesses have raised concerns relating to pricing, parallel imports, professional seller obligations, stolen goods, copyrights, trademarks and other intellectual property rights, and the liability of the provider of an Internet marketplace for the conduct of its users related to those and other issues. Success in changing the legal or regulatory regimes in a manner that would increase our liability for third-party listings could negatively impact our business. Over the last few years some large retailers and their trade associations have sought legislation in a number of states and the U.S. Congress that would make eBay liable for the sale of stolen property or would ban certain categories of goods from sale on our platform, including gift cards and health and beauty products. No such legislation has passed. Nonetheless, the proponents continue to seek passage of such legislation, and if any of these laws are adopted it could harm our business. Numerous states and foreign jurisdictions, including the State of California, where our headquarters are located, have regulations regarding “auctions” and the handling of property by “secondhand dealers” or “pawnbrokers.” Several states and some foreign jurisdictions, including France, have attempted, and may attempt in the future, to impose such regulations upon us or our users. Attempted enforcement of these laws against some of our users appears to be increasing and such attempted enforcements could harm our business. In France, we have been sued by Conseil des Ventes, the French auction regulatory authority. The agency alleges that sales on our French website constitute illegal auctions that cannot be performed without its consent. We intend to vigorously defend against this lawsuit. However, this and other regulatory and licensure claims could result in costly litigation and, if successful, could require us to change the way we or our users do business in ways that increase costs or reduce revenues (for example, by forcing us to prohibit listings of certain items for some locations). We could also be subject to fines or other penalties, and any of these outcomes could harm our business. A number of the lawsuits against us relating to trademark issues seek to have our websites subject to unfavorable local laws. For example, “trademark exhaustion” principles provide trademark owners with certain rights to control the sale of a branded authentic product until it has been placed on the market by the trademark holder or with the holder’s consent. The application of “trademark exhaustion” principles is largely unsettled in the context of the Internet, and if trademark owners are able to force us to prohibit listings of certain items in one or more locations, our business could be harmed. As we expand and localize our international activities, we become obligated to comply with the laws of the countries in which we operate. In addition, because our services are accessible worldwide, and we facilitate sales of goods to users worldwide, one or more jurisdictions may claim that we or our users are required to comply with their laws based on the location of our servers or one or more of our users, or the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction. Laws regulating Internet and ecommerce companies outside of the U.S. may be less favorable than those in the U.S., giving greater rights to consumers, content owners, competitors, users and other third parties. Compliance may be more costly or may require us to change our business practices or restrict our service offerings, and the imposition of any regulations on our users may harm our business. In addition, we may be subject to overlapping legal or regulatory regimes that impose conflicting requirements on us. Our alleged failure to comply with foreign laws could subject us to penalties ranging from criminal prosecution to significant fines to bans on our services. If PayPal were found to be subject to or in violation of any U.S. laws or regulations governing banking, money transmission, or electronic funds transfers, it could be subject to liability and forced to change its business practices. Nearly all U.S. states and territories have enacted legislation regulating money transmitters. To date, PayPal has obtained licenses in 42 of these jurisdictions and interpretations in six states that licensing is not required under their existing statutes, and is applying for a license in one additional state. The remaining U.S. states and territories do not currently regulate money transmitters. As a licensed money transmitter, PayPal is subject to bonding requirements, restrictions on its investment of customer funds, reporting requirements, and inspection by state regulatory agencies. If PayPal were found to be in violation of money services laws or regulations, PayPal could be subject to liability, forced to cease doing business with residents of certain states, or forced to change its business practices. Any change to PayPal’s business practices that makes the service less attractive to customers or prohibits its use by residents of a particular jurisdiction could decrease the velocity of trade on eBay, which would further harm our business. Even if PayPal is not forced to change its business practices, it could be required to obtain additional licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on PayPal. Although there have been no definitive interpretations to date, PayPal has assumed that its service is subject to the Electronic Fund Transfer Act and Regulation E of the Federal Reserve Board. As a result, among other things, PayPal must provide advance disclosure of changes to its service, follow specified error resolution procedures and reimburse consumers for losses above $50 from transactions not authorized by the consumer. PayPal currently voluntarily reimburses consumers for all financial losses from transactions not authorized by the consumer, not just losses above $50. PayPal seeks to pass most of these losses on to the relevant merchants, but PayPal incurs losses if the merchant does not have sufficient funds in its PayPal account. In addition, PayPal is subject to the financial privacy provisions of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act, state financial privacy laws, and related regulations. As a result, some customer financial information that PayPal receives is subject to limitations on reuse and disclosure. Existing and potential future privacy laws may limit PayPal’s ability to develop new products and services that make use of data gathered through its service. The provisions of these laws and related regulations are complicated. Even technical violations of these laws can result in penalties of up to $1,000 for each non-compliant transaction. PayPal processed an average of approximately 2.3 million transactions per day during the quarter ended June 30, 2008, and any violations could expose PayPal to significant liability. Any negative change in the public’s perception of PayPal’s compliance with privacy laws and policies could also negatively impact PayPal’s business. PayPal is subject to regulation as a bank in Luxembourg, and its status under banking or financial services laws or other laws in markets outside the U.S. is unclear. PayPal currently allows its customers with credit cards to send payments from 190 markets, and allows its customers to receive payments in 65 of those markets (including the U.S.). Customers can only withdraw funds electronically to local bank accounts in 40 of these 65 markets. In 20 of these 65 markets customers can withdraw funds electronically to their credit or debit card. In two of these 65 markets customers can only withdraw funds locally by receiving a bank draft in the mail, and in another three of these 65 markets, customers cannot withdraw locally and can only withdraw funds if they have a U.S. bank account. These limitations affect PayPal’s ability to grow in these markets. PayPal also offers customers the ability to send or receive payments denominated in 19 currencies. Of the 190 markets whose residents can use the PayPal service, 31 (27 countries plus four French overseas departments) are members of the European Union. As of July 2007, PayPal provides localized versions of its service to customers in the EU through PayPal (Europe) S.A.R.L. et Cie, SCA., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is licensed as a bank in Luxembourg. Accordingly, PayPal (Europe) is subject to significant fines or other enforcement action if it violates the disclosure, reporting, anti-money laundering, capitalization, funds management, corporate governance or other requirements imposed on Luxembourg banks. PayPal does not have experience in operating as a bank, and any fines or other enforcement actions imposed by the Luxembourg regulator could adversely affect PayPal’s business. PayPal (Europe) implements its localized services in EU countries through an expedited “passport” notification process through the Luxembourg regulator to regulators in other EU member states pursuant to EU Directives, and has completed the “passport” notice process in all EU member countries. The regulators in these countries could notify PayPal (Europe) of local consumer protection laws that will apply to its business, in addition to Luxembourg consumer protection law. The regulators in these countries could also seek to persuade the Luxembourg regulator to order PayPal (Europe) to conduct its activities in the local country through a branch office. Any such responses from these regulators could increase the cost of, or delay, PayPal’s plans for expanding its business. In markets other than the U.S., EU, Australia and China, PayPal serves its customers through PayPal Singapore Private Ltd., a wholly-owned subsidiary of PayPal that is based in Singapore. In many of these markets, it is not clear whether PayPal’s Singapore-based service is subject to local law or, if it is subject to local law, whether such local law requires a payment processor like PayPal to be licensed as a bank or financial institution or otherwise. Even if PayPal is not currently required to obtain a license in those countries, future localization or targeted marketing of PayPal’s service in those countries could require licensure. PayPal could be required to obtain licenses or regulatory approvals that could impose a substantial cost on it and involve considerable delay to the provision or development of its product. Delay or failure to receive such a license would require PayPal to change its business practices or features in ways that would adversely affect PayPal’s international expansion plans and could require PayPal to suspend providing services to customers in one or more countries. PayPal may also be subject to other laws and regulations of one or more countries in which it serves its customers, such as data protection and anti-money laundering laws, which vary from country to country and are subject to change. In some cases, these laws may require expensive changes to PayPal’s current business practices. If PayPal were found to be subject to and in violation of any foreign laws or regulations, it could be subject to liability, forced to change its business practices or forced to suspend providing services to customers in one or more countries. In addition, if PayPal were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers outside of the U.S., either alone, through a commercial alliance, or through an acquisition, PayPal could become subject to additional licensure requirements, additional laws and regulations, or increased regulatory scrutiny, which could impose substantial costs and delay the introduction of any new products. Changes to credit card networks or bank fees, rules, or practices could harm PayPal’s business. PayPal does not belong to or directly access credit card networks, such as Visa and MasterCard. As a result, PayPal must rely on banks or other payment processors to process transactions, and must pay a fee for this service. From time to time, credit card networks have increased, and may increase in the future, the interchange fees and assessments that they charge for each transaction using one of their cards. PayPal’s credit card processors have the right to pass any increases in interchange fees and assessments on to PayPal as well as increase their own fees for processing. These increased fees increase PayPal’s operating costs and reduce its profit margins. PayPal is also required by its processors to comply with credit card network operating rules, and PayPal has agreed to reimburse its processors for any fines they are assessed by credit card networks as a result of any rule violations by PayPal or PayPal’s customers. The credit card networks set and interpret the credit card rules. Credit card networks could adopt new operating rules or re-interpret existing rules that PayPal or its processors might find difficult or even impossible to follow. As a result, PayPal could lose its ability to give customers the option of using credit cards to fund their payments. If PayPal were unable to accept credit cards, its business would be seriously damaged. In addition, the velocity of trade on eBay could decrease and our business would further suffer. PayPal is required to comply with credit card networks’ special operating rules for Internet payment services. PayPal and its credit card processors have implemented specific business processes for merchant customers in order to comply with these rules, but any failure to comply could result in fines, the amount of which would be within the credit card networks’ discretion. PayPal also could be subject to fines from credit card networks if it fails to detect that merchants are engaging in activities that are illegal or that are considered “high risk,” primarily the sale of certain types of digital content. For “high risk” merchants, PayPal must either prevent such merchants from using PayPal or register such merchants with credit card networks and conduct additional monitoring with respect to such merchants. PayPal has incurred fines from its credit card processor relating to PayPal’s failure to detect the use of its service by “high risk” merchants. The amount of these fines has not been material, but any additional fines in the future would likely be for larger amounts, could become material, and could result in a termination of PayPal’s ability to accept credit cards or changes in PayPal’s process for registering new customers, which would seriously damage PayPal’s business. Changes in PayPal’s funding mix could adversely affect PayPal’s results. PayPal pays significant transaction fees when senders fund payment transactions using credit cards, nominal fees when customers fund payment transactions by electronic transfer of funds from bank accounts, and no fees when customers fund payment transactions from an existing PayPal account balance or use buyer credit issued by GE Money Bank. Senders fund a significant portion of PayPal’s payment volume using credit cards, and PayPal’s financial success will remain highly sensitive to changes in the rate at which its senders fund payments using credit cards. Senders may prefer funding using credit cards rather than bank account transfers for a number of reasons, including the ability to dispute and reverse charges directly with their credit card provider if merchandise is not delivered or is not as described, the ability to earn frequent flier miles or other incentives offered by credit card issuers, the ability to defer payment, or a reluctance to provide bank account information to PayPal. The proportion of PayPal’s payment volume funded using credit cards has increased over time. In addition, some of PayPal’s newer offerings, including the ability to make a limited number of payments without opening an account, have a higher rate of credit card funding than PayPal’s basic product offering. In September 2006, PayPal entered into a settlement agreement with the attorneys general of a number of states under which it agreed to pay $1.7 million to the attorneys general, shorten and streamline its user agreement, and communicate more information regarding protection programs to users. Also in September 2006, PayPal announced that it had reached a preliminary settlement agreement under which it agreed to pay approximately $3.5 million into a settlement fund for the benefit of a class represented by plaintiffs in a suit that alleged, among other things, that PayPal’s disclosure regarding the effects of users’ choice of funding mechanism was deceptive. This settlement was initially rejected by the court, and the parties have submitted a revised settlement agreement to the court. Although PayPal did not admit any liability for any of the allegations in the two cases, changes to our disclosure practices could result in increased use of credit card funding, which could harm PayPal’s business. PayPal’s failure to manage customer funds properly would harm its business. PayPal’s ability to manage and account accurately for customer funds requires a high level of internal controls. In some of the markets that PayPal serves and currencies that PayPal offers, PayPal has a limited operating history and limited management experience in managing these internal controls. As PayPal’s business continues to grow, it must strengthen its internal controls accordingly. PayPal’s success requires significant public confidence in its ability to handle large and growing transaction volumes and amounts of customer funds. Any failure to maintain necessary controls or to manage accurately customer funds could diminish customer use of PayPal’s product severely. System failures could harm our business. We have experienced system failures from time to time, and any interruption in the availability of our websites will reduce our current revenues and profits, could harm our future revenues and profits, and could subject us to regulatory scrutiny. Our eBay.com website has been interrupted for periods of up to 22 hours, and our PayPal website has suffered intermittent unavailability for periods as long as five days. In August 2007, Skype experienced an interruption during which the majority of Skype’s users were unable to use its products for approximately two days. Any unscheduled interruption in our services results in an immediate, and possibly substantial, loss of revenues. Frequent or persistent interruptions in our services could cause current or potential users to believe that our systems are unreliable, leading them to switch to our competitors or to avoid our sites, and could permanently harm our reputation and brands. Reliability is particularly critical for PayPal, especially as it seeks to expand its Merchant Services business. Because PayPal is a regulated financial entity, frequent or persistent site interruptions could lead to fines, penalties, or mandatory changes to PayPal’s business practices, and ultimately could cause PayPal to lose existing licenses it needs to operate or prevent it from obtaining additional licenses that it needs to expand. Finally, because our customers may use our products for critical transactions, any system failures could result in damage to our customers’ businesses. These customers could seek significant compensation from us for their losses. Even if unsuccessful, this type of claim likely would be time consuming and costly for us to address. Although our systems have been designed around industry-standard architectures to reduce downtime in the event of outages or catastrophic occurrences, they remain vulnerable to damage or interruption from earthquakes, floods, fires, power loss, telecommunication failures, terrorist attacks, computer viruses, computer denial-of-service attacks, and similar events. Some of our systems, including our Shopping.com and Skype websites, are not fully redundant, and our disaster recovery planning is not sufficient for all eventualities. Our systems are also subject to break-ins, sabotage, and intentional acts of vandalism. Despite any precautions we may take, the occurrence of a natural disaster, a decision by any of our third-party hosting providers to close a facility we use without adequate notice for financial or other reasons, or other unanticipated problems at our hosting facilities could result in lengthy interruptions in our services. We do not carry business interruption insurance sufficient to compensate us for losses that may result from interruptions in our service as a result of system failures. There are many risks associated with our international operations. Our international expansion has been rapid and our international business, especially in Germany and the U.K., has also become critical to our revenues and profits. Net revenues outside the U.S. accounted for approximately 51% and 54%, respectively, of our net revenues in fiscal year 2007 and the first six months of 2008. Expansion into international markets requires management attention and resources and requires us to localize our services to conform to local cultures, standards, and policies. The commercial, Internet, and transportation infrastructure in lesser-developed countries may make it more difficult for us to replicate our traditional Marketplace business model. In many countries, we compete with local companies that understand the local market better than we do, and we may not benefit from first-to-market advantages. We may not be successful in expanding into particular international markets or in generating revenues from foreign operations. For example, in 2002 we withdrew our eBay marketplace offering from the Japanese market, and in 2007 we contributed our business in China to a joint venture with a local Chinese company. Even if we are successful in developing new markets, we often expect the costs of operating new sites to exceed our net revenues for at least 12 months in most countries. As we continue to expand internationally, including through the expansion of PayPal, Skype, Shopping.com, and our classified businesses, we are increasingly subject to risks of doing business internationally, including the following: strong local competitors; regulatory requirements, including regulation of Internet services, communications, auctioneering, professional selling, distance selling, privacy and data protection, banking, and money transmitting, that may limit or prevent the offering of our services in some jurisdictions, prevent enforceable agreements between sellers and buyers, prohibit the listing of certain categories of goods, require product changes, require special licensure, subject us to various taxes, penalties or audits, or limit the transfer of information between us and our affiliates; greater liability or legal uncertainty regarding our liability for the listings and other content provided by our users, including uncertainty as a result of legal systems that are less developed with respect to the Internet, unique local laws, conflicting court decisions and lack of clear precedent or applicable law; cultural ambivalence towards, or non-acceptance of, online trading; laws and business practices that favor local competitors or prohibit foreign ownership of certain businesses; difficulties in integrating with local payment providers, including banks, credit and debit card networks, and electronic fund transfer systems or with the local telecommunications infrastructure; differing levels of retail distribution, shipping, communications, and Internet infrastructures; different employee/employer relationships and the existence of workers’ councils and labor unions; difficulties in staffing and managing foreign operations; challenges associated with joint venture relationships, including dependence on our joint venture partners; difficulties in implementing and maintaining adequate internal controls; longer payment cycles, different accounting practices, and greater problems in collecting accounts receivable; potentially adverse tax consequences, including local taxation of our fees or of transactions on our websites; higher telecommunications and Internet service provider costs; different and more stringent user protection, data protection, privacy and other laws; seasonal reductions in business activity; expenses associated with localizing our products, including offering customers the ability to transact business in the local currency; profit repatriation restrictions, foreign currency exchange restrictions, and exchange rate fluctuations; volatility in a specific country’s or region’s political, economic or military conditions; and differing intellectual property laws. Some of these factors may cause our international costs of doing business to exceed our comparable domestic costs. As we expand our international operations and have additional portions of our international revenues denominated in foreign currencies, we also could become subject to increased difficulties in collecting accounts receivable, repatriating money without adverse tax consequences, and risks relating to foreign currency exchange rate fluctuations. The impact of currency exchange rate fluctuations is discussed in more detail under “We are exposed to fluctuations in currency exchange rates and interest rates,” above. In addition, we conduct certain functions, including product development, customer support and other operations, in regions outside the U.S., particularly in India and China. We are subject to both U.S. and local laws and regulations applicable to our offshore activities, and any factors which reduce the anticipated benefits, including cost efficiencies and productivity improvements, associated with providing these functions outside of the U.S. could adversely affect our business. We are continuing to expand PayPal’s services internationally. In some countries, expansion of PayPal’s business may require a close commercial relationship with one or more local banks, a shared ownership interest with a local entity or registration as a bank under local law. Such requirements may reduce our profitability or limit the scope of our activities in particular countries. Any limitation on our ability to expand PayPal internationally could harm our business. We maintain a portion of Shopping.com’s research and development facilities and personnel in Israel, and in January 2008 we acquired Fraud Sciences Ltd., an Israeli company. As a result, political, economic and military conditions in Israel affect those operations. The future of peace efforts between Israel and its neighboring countries remains uncertain. Increased hostilities or terrorism within Israel or armed hostilities between Israel and neighboring states could make it more difficult for us to continue our operations in Israel, which could increase our costs. In addition, many of our employees in Israel could be required to serve in the military for extended periods of time under emergency circumstances. Our Israeli operations could be disrupted by the absence of employees due to military service, which could adversely affect our business. Acquisitions and joint ventures could result in operating difficulties, dilution, and other harmful consequences. We have acquired a number of businesses in the past, including, most recently, Fraud Sciences Ltd.. We expect to continue to evaluate and consider a wide array of potential strategic transactions, including business combinations, acquisitions and dispositions of businesses, technologies, services, products and other assets. At any given time we may be engaged in discussions or negotiations with respect to one or more of these types of transactions. Any of these transactions could be material to our financial condition and results of operations. The process of integrating any acquired business may create unforeseen operating difficulties and expenditures and is itself risky. The areas where we may face difficulties include: diversion of management time, as well as a shift of focus from operating the businesses to issues related to integration and administration, particularly given the large number and size and varying scope of our recent acquisitions; declining employee morale and retention issues resulting from changes in, or acceleration of, compensation, or changes in management, reporting relationships, future prospects, or the direction of the business; the need to integrate each company’s accounting, management, information, human resource and other administrative systems to permit effective management, and the lack of control if such integration is delayed or not implemented; the need to implement controls, procedures and policies appropriate for a larger public company at companies that prior to acquisition had lacked such controls, procedures and policies; in the case of foreign acquisitions, the need to integrate operations across different cultures and languages and to address the particular economic, currency, political, and regulatory risks associated with specific countries; in some cases, the need to transition operations, users, and customers onto our existing platforms; and liability for activities of the acquired company before the acquisition, including violations of laws, rules and regulations, commercial disputes, tax liabilities and other known and unknown liabilities. Moreover, we may not realize the anticipated benefits of any or all of our acquisitions, or may not realize them in the time frame expected. For example, in connection with the Skype transaction, we recorded a goodwill impairment charge of approximately $1.4 billion in our financial statements during 2007. Future acquisitions or mergers may result in a need to issue additional equity securities, spend our cash, or incur debt, liabilities, amortization expenses related to intangible assets or write-offs of goodwill, any of which could reduce our profitability and harm our business. In addition, we have made investments in certain joint ventures in which we have a minority equity interest, and lack management and operational control. These investments in joint ventures may involve risks, including the risk that the controlling joint venture partner may have business interests, strategies or goals that are inconsistent with ours, and the risk that business decisions or other actions or omissions of the controlling joint venture partner or the joint venture company may result in harm to our reputation or adversely affect the value of our investment in the joint venture. Our business and users may be subject to sales tax and other taxes. The application of indirect taxes (such as sales and use tax, value-added tax, or VAT, goods and services tax, business tax, and gross receipt tax) to ecommerce businesses such as eBay and to our users is a complex and evolving issue. Many of the fundamental statutes and regulations that impose these taxes were established before the growth of the Internet and ecommerce. In many cases, it is not clear how existing statutes apply to the Internet or electronic commerce or communications conducted over the Internet. In addition, some jurisdictions have implemented or may implement laws specifically addressing the Internet or some aspect of electronic commerce or communications on the Internet. From time to time, some taxing authorities have notified us that they believe we owe them certain taxes. Most recently, the City of Chicago has notified both eBay and StubHub that they are liable for a city amusement tax on tickets to events in Chicago, irrespective of the location of the buyer or seller. The application of existing or future laws could have adverse effects on our business. Several proposals have been made at the U.S. state and local level that would impose additional taxes on the sale of goods and services or communications through the Internet. These proposals, if adopted, could substantially impair the growth of ecommerce and our brands, and could diminish our opportunity to derive financial benefit from our activities. The U.S. federal government’s moratorium on state and local taxation of Internet access or multiple or discriminatory taxes on ecommerce was extended through November 2014 through legislation enacted in October 2007. This moratorium does not prohibit federal, state, or local authorities from collecting taxes on our income or from collecting certain taxes that were in effect prior to the enactment of the moratorium and/or one of its extensions. In conjunction with the Streamlined Sales Tax Project — an ongoing, multi-year effort by U.S., state, and local governments to require collection and remittance of distant sales tax by out-of-state sellers — bills have been introduced in the U.S. Congress to overturn the Supreme Court’s Quill decision, which limits the ability of state governments to require sellers outside of their own state to collect and remit sales taxes on goods purchased by in-state residents. An overturning of the Quill decision without a robust small business exemption would harm our users and our business. We do not collect taxes on the goods or services sold by users of our services. One or more states or the federal government or foreign countries may seek to impose a tax collection or reporting or record-keeping obligation on companies that engage in or facilitate ecommerce. Such an obligation could be imposed by legislation intended to improve tax compliance (and legislation to such effect has been discussed in the U.S. Congress, several states, and a number of foreign jurisdictions) or if an eBay company was ever deemed to be the legal agent of the users of our services by a jurisdiction in which eBay operates. For example, several revenue bills recently introduced in the U.S. Congress would require companies (such as PayPal) that electronically process payments for merchants to track, aggregate and report information to the IRS on the payments they make to merchants. One or more jurisdictions may also seek to impose tax-collection or reporting obligations based on the location of the product or service being sold or provided in an ecommerce transaction, regardless of where the respective users are located. Imposition of a discriminatory record keeping or tax collecting requirement could decrease seller activity on our sites and would harm our business. Foreign authorities may also require eBay to help ensure compliance by our users with local laws regulating professional sellers, including tax requirements. In addition, we have periodically received requests from tax authorities in many jurisdictions for information regarding the transactions of large classes of sellers on our sites, and in some cases we have been legally obligated to provide this data. The imposition of any requirements on us to disclose transaction records for all or a class of sellers to tax or other regulatory authorities or to file tax forms on behalf of any sellers, especially requirements that are imposed on us but not on alternative means of ecommerce, and any use of those records to investigate, collect taxes from, or prosecute sellers, could decrease seller activity on our sites and harm our business. We pay input VAT on applicable taxable purchases within the various countries in which we operate. In most cases, we are entitled to reclaim input VAT from the various countries. However, because of our unique business model, the application of the laws and rules that allow such reclamation is sometimes uncertain. A successful assertion by one or more countries that we are not entitled to reclaim VAT could harm our business. We continue to work with the relevant tax authorities and legislators to clarify eBay’s obligations under new and emerging laws and regulations. Passage of new legislation and the imposition of additional tax or tax-related reporting requirements could harm our users and our business. There have been, and will continue to be, substantial ongoing costs associated with complying with the various indirect tax requirements in the numerous markets in which eBay conducts or will conduct business. The current regulatory environment for Voice over Internet Protocol (VoIP) is uncertain, and Skype’s business could be harmed by new regulations or the application of existing regulations to its products. The current regulatory environment for VoIP is uncertain and rapidly changing. Skype believes that its Internet communications products are currently subject to few, if any, of the same regulations that apply to traditional telephony and VoIP-based telephone replacement services. VoIP companies are generally subject to different regulatory regimes in different countries, and in most cases are subject to lower, or no, regulatory fees and lesser, or no, specific regulatory requirements. However, the status of VoIP providers is uncertain in many jurisdictions and Skype frequently must respond to regulatory inquiries about its status. Regulatory agencies may require Skype to conform to rules that are difficult or impossible for it to comply with due to the nature of its communications technologies, which could adversely affect its business. For example, while suitable alternatives may be developed in the future, Skype is currently unable to identify the exact geographic origin of the traffic traversing the Internet or to provide detailed calling information about computer-to- computer communications, either of which may make complying with future regulatory requirements, such as emergency service requirements, difficult or impossible. Governments may impose new or increased fees, taxes, and administrative burdens on VoIP companies, or Skype may change its product offerings in a manner that makes it become subject to telecommunications regulations. Increased fees could include access and other charges payable to local exchange carriers to carry and terminate traffic, contributions to federal or state Universal Service Funds in the United States and elsewhere, and other charges. In addition, such fees may be assessed by governments retroactively or prospectively. Skype may be required to meet various emergency service requirements, disability access requirements, user protection requirements, number assignment and portability requirements, and interception or wiretapping requirements, such as the Communications Assistance for Law Enforcement Act in the U.S. and similar laws in other jurisdictions. Such regulations could result in substantial costs depending on the technical changes required to accommodate the requirements, and any increased costs could erode Skype’s pricing advantage over competing forms of communication. Regulations that decrease the degree of privacy for users of Skype’s products could also slow its adoption. The increasing growth and popularity of Internet communications heightens the risk that governments will seek to regulate VoIP and Internet communications, and Skype has received an increasing number of inquiries from regulators about its products and services. Competitors, including the incumbent telephone companies, may devote substantial lobbying efforts to seek greater protection for their existing businesses and increased regulation of VoIP. In the United States, various state legislatures and regulatory agencies are beginning to impose their own requirements and taxes on VoIP. Some countries have prohibited Skype. In many countries in which Skype products are available, the laws that may relate to its offerings are unclear. We cannot be certain that Skype or its customers are currently in full compliance with regulatory or other legal requirements in all countries in which Skype is used. Skype’s failure or the failure of those with whom Skype transacts business to comply with these requirements could materially adversely affect our business, financial condition and results of operations. In addition, increased regulatory requirements on VoIP would increase Skype’s costs, and, as a result, our business would suffer. New rules and regulations with respect to VoIP are being considered in various countries around the world, and at least some of these rules and regulations are likely to be adopted and to be applicable to Skype. Such new rules and regulations are likely to increase our costs of doing business and could prevent us from delivering our products and offerings over the Internet, which could adversely affect Skype’s customer base, and thus its revenue. Skype depends on key technology that is licensed from third parties. Skype licenses technology underlying certain key components of its software from third parties it does not control, including the technology underlying its peer-to-peer architecture and firewall traversal technology, and the video compression/decompression used to provide high video quality. Although Skype has contracts in place with its third-party technology providers, there can be no assurance that the licensed technology or other technology that we may seek to license in the future will continue to be available on commercially reasonable terms, or at all. The loss of, or inability to maintain, existing licenses could result in a decrease in service quality or loss of service until equivalent technology or suitable alternatives can be developed, identified, licensed and integrated. While we believe Skype has the ability to either extend these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or identify and obtain or develop suitable alternative products, the costs associated with licensing or developing such products could be high. Any failure to maintain these licenses on commercially reasonable terms or license or develop alternative technologies would harm Skype’s business. Our businesses depend on continued and unimpeded access to the Internet. Internet service providers may be able to block, degrade, or charge us or our users additional fees for our offerings. Our customers rely on access to the Internet to use our products and services. In many cases that access is provided by companies that compete with at least some of our offerings, including incumbent telephone companies, cable companies, mobile communications companies, and large Internet service providers. Some of these providers have stated that they may take measures that could degrade, disrupt, or increase the cost of customers’ use of our offerings by restricting or prohibiting the use of their lines for our offerings, by filtering, blocking, delaying, or degrading the packets containing the data associated with our products, or by charging increased fees to us or our users for use of their lines to provide our offerings. Some of these providers have contractually restricted their customers’ access to VoIP offerings (which would include Skype) through their terms of service with their customers. These activities are technically feasible and may be permitted by applicable law. In addition, Internet service providers could attempt to charge us each time our customers use our offerings. Worldwide, a number of companies have announced plans to take such actions or are selling products designed to facilitate such actions. Interference with our offerings or higher charges for access to our offerings, whether paid by us or by our customers, could cause us to lose existing customers, impair our ability to attract new customers, and harm our revenue and growth. Our tickets business is subject to regulatory, competitive, and other risks that could harm this business. Our tickets business, which includes our StubHub business, is subject to numerous risks. Many jurisdictions have laws and regulations covering the resale of event tickets, and some jurisdictions prohibit the resale of event tickets at prices above the face value of the tickets. In addition, new laws and regulations may be passed that would limit our or our users’ ability to continue this business. Regulatory agencies or courts may claim or hold that we are responsible for ensuring that our users comply with these laws and regulations or that we or our users are either subject to licensure or prohibited from reselling event tickets in their jurisdictions. Some event organizers and professional sports teams have expressed concern about the resale of their event tickets on our sites. In November 2006, the New England Patriots filed suit against StubHub alleging that StubHub’s resale activities violate Massachusetts’ ticket resale laws and constitute intentional interference with the team’s relationship with its season ticket holders. In April 2007, Ticketmaster filed suit against eBay d/b/a StubHub alleging that StubHub had improperly interfered with Ticketmaster’s contracts with its clients by wrongfully obtaining tickets for sale in violation of Ticketmaster’s exclusive contractual rights to sell such tickets. Such litigation could result in damage awards, could require us to change our business practices in harmful ways, or could otherwise negatively affect our tickets business. Others have threatened litigation. Our tickets business is also subject to seasonal fluctuations and the general economic and business conditions that impact the sporting events and live entertainment industries. Our tickets business also faces significant competition from a number of sources, including ticketing service companies (such as TicketMaster and Tickets.com), event organizers (such as professional sports teams and leagues), ticket brokers, and other online and offline ticket resellers, such as TicketsNow (which is owned by TicketMaster) and RazorGator. If we are unable to effectively compete with these competitors, our tickets business could be harmed. In addition, ticketing service companies and event organizers have recently begun to issue event tickets through paperless (electronic) ticketing systems that include restrictions on the transferability of such event tickets. To the extent that event tickets issued in this manner cannot be resold on our websites, our tickets business could be harmed. We depend on key personnel. Our future performance depends substantially on the continued services of our senior management and other key personnel and our ability to retain and motivate them. We recently changed our Chief Executive Officer and the heads of all three of our business units. These changes may result in increased attrition of our personnel as new reporting relationships are established and as other companies may increasingly target our executives. We do not have long-term employment agreements with any of our key personnel, we do not maintain any “key person” life insurance policies, and many members of our senior management team have fully vested the vast majority of their in-the-money equity incentives. The loss of the services of any of our executive officers or other key employees could harm our business. Our new businesses all depend on attracting and retaining key personnel. Our future success also will depend on our ability to attract, train, retain and motivate highly skilled technical, managerial, marketing, and customer support personnel. Competition for these personnel is intense, and we may be unable to successfully attract, integrate, or retain sufficiently qualified personnel. In making employment decisions, particularly in the Internet and high-technology industries, job candidates often consider the value of the equity awards they are to receive in connection with their employment. Fluctuations in our stock price may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees whose stock option strike prices are substantially above current market prices. Similarly, decreases in the number of unvested in-the-money stock options held by existing employees, whether because our stock price has declined, options have vested, or because the size of follow-on option grants has declined, may make it more difficult to retain and motivate employees. Problems with or price increases by third parties who provide services to us or to our users could harm our business. A number of parties provide services to us or to our users that benefit us. Such services include seller tools that automate and manage listings, merchant tools that manage listings and interface with inventory management software, storefronts that help our users list items, caching services that make our sites load faster, and shipping providers that deliver goods sold on our platform, among others. In some cases we have contractual agreements with these companies that give us a direct financial interest in their success, while in other cases we have none. PayPal is dependent on the processing companies and banks that link PayPal to the credit card and bank clearing networks. Financial, regulatory, or other problems that prevent these companies from providing services to us or our users could reduce the number of listings on our websites or make completing transactions or payments on our websites more difficult, and thereby harm our business. Price increases by companies that provide services to our users could also reduce the number of listings on our websites or make it more difficult for our users to complete transactions, thereby harming our business. For example, we believe recent changes in postal rates may have reduced listing volume on our sites in certain categories. Any security breach at one of these companies could also affect our customers and harm our business. In addition, we have outsourced certain functions to third-party outside providers, including customer support and product development functions, which are critical to our operations. If our service providers do not perform satisfactorily, our operations could be disrupted, which could result in user dissatisfaction and adversely affect our business, reputation and operating results. Although we generally have been able to renew or extend the terms of contractual arrangements with third parties who provide services to us on acceptable terms, there can be no assurance that we will continue to be able to do so in the future, and there can be no assurance that third parties who provide services directly to our users will continue to do so at reasonable rates or at all. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support or anti-fraud measures could diminish use of our services. Customer complaints or negative publicity about our customer support could severely diminish consumer confidence in and use of our services. Measures we sometimes take to combat risks of fraud and breaches of privacy and security have the potential to damage relations with our customers or decrease activity on our sites by making our sites more difficult to use or restricting the activities of certain users. These measures heighten the need for prompt and accurate customer support to resolve irregularities and disputes. Effective customer support requires significant personnel expense, and this expense, if not managed properly, could significantly impact our profitability. Failure to manage or train our customer support representatives properly could compromise our ability to handle customer complaints effectively. If we do not handle customer complaints effectively, our reputation may suffer and we may lose our customers’ confidence. Because it is providing a financial service and operating in a more regulated environment, PayPal, unlike eBay, must provide telephone as well as email customer support and must resolve certain customer contacts within shorter time frames. As part of PayPal’s program to reduce fraud losses and prevent money laundering, it may temporarily restrict the ability of customers to withdraw their funds if those funds or the customer’s account activity are identified by PayPal’s risk models as suspicious. PayPal has in the past received negative publicity with respect to its customer support and account restrictions, and has been the subject of purported class action lawsuits and state attorney general inquiries alleging, among other things, failure to resolve account restrictions promptly. If PayPal is unable to provide quality customer support operations in a cost-effective manner, PayPal’s users may have negative experiences, PayPal may receive additional negative publicity, its ability to attract new customers may be damaged, and it could become subject to additional litigation. As a result, current and future revenues could suffer, and its operating margins may decrease. In addition, negative publicity about or experiences with customer support for Marketplaces, PayPal or Skype could cause our reputation to suffer or affect consumer confidence in our brands as a whole. Our industry is intensely competitive, and other companies or governmental agencies may allege that our behavior is anti-competitive. Marketplaces Marketplaces businesses currently or potentially compete with a number of companies providing both particular categories of goods and broader ranges of goods. The Internet provides new, rapidly evolving and intensely competitive channels for the sale of all types of goods. We expect competition to intensify in the future. The barriers to entry into these channels are relatively low and current offline and new competitors, including small businesses who want to create and promote their own stores, can easily launch online sites at a nominal cost using commercially available software or partnering with any one of a number of successful ecommerce companies. Our broad-based competitors include the vast majority of traditional department, warehouse, discount, and general merchandise stores (as well as the online operations of these traditional retailers), emerging online retailers, online classified services, and other shopping channels such as offline and online home shopping networks. Among others, these include: Wal-Mart, Target, Sears, Macy’s, JC Penney, Costco, Office Depot, Staples, OfficeMax, Sam’s Club, Amazon.com, Buy.com, AOL.com, Yahoo! Shopping, MSN, QVC, and Home Shopping Network. A number of companies offer a variety of services that provide channels for buyers to find and buy items from sellers of all sizes, including online aggregation and classifieds websites such as craigslist (in which we own a minority equity stake), Google Base, Microsoft Live Expo, and Oodle.com. Our Kijiji websites offers classifieds listings in a variety of local international markets, and in July 2007, Kijiji launched local classifieds websites in the U.S. In many markets in which it operates, including in the U.S., our classified platforms compete against more established online and offline classifieds platforms. In 2005, we acquired Shopping.com Ltd., an online shopping comparison site. Shopping.com competes with sites such as Buy.com, Google’s Product Search, Nextag.com, Pricegrabber.com, Shopzilla, and Yahoo! Product Search, which offer shopping search engines that allow consumers to search the Internet for specified products. Recent legal developments may affect the utility of shopping comparison sites if manufacturers begin requiring more uniformity in product pricing. In addition, sellers are increasingly acquiring new customers by paying for search-related advertisements on search engine sites such as Google and Yahoo!. We use product search engines and paid search advertising to channel users to our sites, but these services also have the potential to divert users to other online shopping destinations. We also compete with many local, regional, and national specialty retailers and exchanges in each of the major categories of products offered on our websites. For example, category-specific competitors to offerings in our Books/Music/Movies category include, among others: Amazon.com, Barnes & Noble, Alibris.com, Indigo Books & Music, Abebooks.com, Scholastic Inc., Follett Higher Education Group, Napster, iTunes, Rhapsody, Netflix, Blockbuster, Columbia House, Virgin Music, eMusic, Best Buy, as well as other online and offline retailers, stores and shopping networks. Our international Marketplaces websites compete with similar online and offline channels in each of their vertical categories in most countries. In addition, they compete with general online ecommerce sites, such as Quelle and Otto in Germany, Tradus (recently acquired by Naspers) in Poland, Yahoo-Kimo in Taiwan, Lotte and Gmarket in South Korea, OZtion and Aussie Bidder in Australia, and Amazon in the United Kingdom and other countries. In some of these countries, there are online sites that have much larger customer bases and greater brand recognition than we do, and in certain of these jurisdictions there are competitors that may have a better understanding of local culture and commerce than we do. The principal competitive factors for Marketplaces include the following: ability to attract and retain buyers and sellers; volume of transactions and price and selection of goods; customer service; and brand recognition. With respect to our online competition, additional competitive factors include: community cohesion, interaction and size; website ease-of-use and accessibility; level of trust in the seller; system reliability; reliability of delivery and payment; level of service fees; and quality of search tools. Some current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, larger customer bases and greater brand recognition in other business and Internet sectors than we do. Other online trading services may be acquired by, receive investments from, or enter into other commercial relationships with well-established and well-financed companies. As a result, some of our competitors with other revenue sources may be able to devote more resources to marketing and promotional campaigns, adopt more aggressive pricing policies and devote substantially more resources to website and systems development than we can. Some of our competitors have offered services for free and others may do this as well. We may be unable to compete successfully against current and future competitors. In addition, certain offline competitors may encourage manufacturers to limit or cease distribution of their products to dealers who sell through online channels such as eBay, or may attempt to use existing or future government regulation to prohibit or limit online commerce in certain categories of goods or services. The adoption by manufacturers or government authorities of policies or regulations discouraging the sales of goods or services over the Internet could force eBay users to stop selling certain products on our websites. Increased competition or anti-Internet distribution policies or regulations may result in reduced operating margins, loss of market share and diminished value of our brand. Conversely, other companies and government agencies have in the past and may in the future allege that our actions violate the antitrust or competition laws of the U.S. or other countries, or otherwise constitute unfair competition. Such claims, even if without foundation, typically are very expensive to defend, involve negative publicity and diversion of management time and effort, and could result in significant judgments against us. In order to respond to changes in the competitive environment, we may, from time to time, make pricing, service or marketing decisions or acquisitions that could harm our profitability. For example, in January 2008, we announced significant changes to our Marketplaces business in three major areas: fee structure, seller incentives and standards, and buyer and seller feedback. In March 2008, we announced that beginning in June 2008, we would require users in the UK to offer PayPal as one option as a method of payment on most transactions on our localized UK website, and in April 2008, we announced that we planned to require users in Australia to offer and use PayPal as the exclusive method of payment on most transactions on our localized Australian website. In June 2008, the Australian Competition and Consumer Commission (ACCC) issued a draft notice precluding us from requiring PayPal to be used as the exclusive payment option for transactions on our localized Australian website. In July 2008, we withdrew our notification to the ACCC. While these initiatives are intended to improve and make safer our users’ buying experience and/or increase activity on our sites, certain users may be negatively affected by or react negatively to these changes. Any negative reaction to these changes by our users or government authorities could, among other things, force us to change our operating practices in ways that could harm our business, operating results and profitability. In addition, certain competitors may offer or continue to offer free shipping or other transaction related services, which could be impractical or inefficient for eBay sellers to match. New technologies may increase the competitive pressures by enabling our competitors to offer a lower cost service. Although we have established Internet traffic arrangements with several large online services and search engine companies, these arrangements may not be renewed on commercially reasonable terms or these companies may decide to promote competitive services. Even if these arrangements are renewed, they may not result in increased usage of our services. In addition, companies that control user access to transactions through network access, Internet browsers, or search engines, could promote our competitors, channel current or potential users to their vertically integrated electronic commerce sites or their advertisers’ sites, attempt to restrict our access, or charge us substantial fees for inclusion. Search engines are increasingly becoming a starting point for online shopping, and as the costs of operating an online store decline, online sellers may increasingly sell goods through multiple channels, which could reduce the number and value of transactions these sellers conduct through our sites. PayPal The markets for PayPal’s product are intensely competitive and are subject to rapid technological change, including but not limited to: mobile payments, electronic funds transfer networks starting to allow Internet access, cross-border access to networks, creation of new networks, expansion of prepaid cards, and bill pay networks. PayPal competes with existing online and offline payment methods, including, among others: credit card merchant processors that offer their services to online merchants, including American Express, Cardservice International, Chase Paymentech, First Data, and Wells Fargo; and payment gateways, including CyberSource and Authorize.net (which has merged with CyberSource); money remitters such as MoneyGram and Western Union; bill payment services, including CheckFree; processors that provide online merchants the ability to offer their customers the option of paying for purchases from their bank account, including Certegy, eBillMe, Revolution Money and TeleCheck, a subsidiary of First Data, or to pay on credit, including Bill Me Later; providers of traditional payment methods, particularly credit cards, checks, money orders, and Automated Clearing House transactions; issuers of stored value targeted at online payments, including VisaBuxx, NetSpend and GreenDot; mobile payments, including Obopay, TextPayMe (a subsidiary of Amazon), Crandy, LUUP and Payforit; Amazon Payments, which acts as a credit processor and can be linked to a personal bank account; and Google Checkout, which enables the online payment of merchants using credit cards. Some of these competitors have longer operating histories, significantly greater financial, technical, marketing, customer service and other resources, greater name recognition, or a larger base of customers in affiliated businesses than PayPal. PayPal’s competitors may respond to new or emerging technologies and changes in customer requirements faster and more effectively than PayPal. Some of these competitors may also be subject to lesser licensing, anti-money laundering, and other regulatory requirements than PayPal, which is subject to additional regulations based on its licensure as a bank in Luxembourg. They may devote greater resources to the development, promotion, and sale of products and services than PayPal, and they may offer lower prices. For example, Google Checkout provided free payment processing promotion through February 1, 2008, and currently offers free payments processing on transactions in an amount proportionate to certain advertising spending with Google. Competing services tied to established banks and other financial institutions may offer greater liquidity and engender greater consumer confidence in the safety and efficacy of their services than PayPal. Overseas, PayPal faces competition from similar channels and payment methods. In each country, numerous banks provide standard online credit card acquiring and processing services, and these banks typically have leading market share. In addition, PayPal faces competition from Visa’s Visa Direct, MasterCard’s MoneySend, Royal Bank of Scotland’s World Pay and ClickandBuy in the EU, NOCHEX, Moneybookers, NETeller and FirePay in the United Kingdom, CertaPay and HyperWallet in Canada, Paymate and BPay in Australia, Alipay, YeePay, and 99Bill in China and Inicis in South Korea. In addition, in certain countries, such as Germany and Australia, electronic funds transfer is a leading method of payment for both online and offline transactions. As in the U.S., established banks and other financial institutions that do not currently offer online payments could quickly and easily develop such a service. Some of PayPal’s competitors, such as Wells Fargo, First Data, American Express, and Royal Bank of Scotland, also provide processing or foreign exchange services to PayPal. If PayPal were to seek to expand the financial products that it offers, either alone or through a commercial alliance or an acquisition, these processing and foreign exchange relationships could be negatively affected, or these competitors and other processors could make it more difficult for PayPal to deliver its services. Skype The market for Skype’s products is also intensely competitive and characterized by rapid technological change. We expect Skype’s various communications competitors, including, for example, the providers of online communications products and telecommunications operators, to continue to improve the performance of their current products and introduce new products, software, services and technologies. If Skype’s competitors successfully introduce new products or enhance their existing products, this could reduce the market for Skype’s products, increase price competition, or make Skype’s products obsolete, which could lower Skype’s adoption rates, decrease its ability to attract new users or cause its current users to migrate to a competing company. Additionally, many of Skype’s current and potential competitors have longer operating histories, are substantially larger, and have greater financial, marketing, technical, and other resources. Some also have greater name recognition and a larger installed base of customers than Skype has. If we are unable to operate our new in-house global affiliate platform in an effective and efficient manner, our business could suffer. Under our affiliate programs, affiliates and website publishers are paid for traffic driven to our websites. Our affiliate programs were previously run externally through a third-party platform. In April 2008, we launched our new global affiliate platform, the eBay Partner Network, which is managed and operated internally. If we are unable to transition our affiliate programs in-house in a timely and effective manner, this could result in dissatisfaction on the part of our affiliates and/or a reduction in traffic to our websites, which could adversely affect our business and operating results. In addition, we may incur substantial costs associated with implementing and operating the eBay Partner Network, including costs associated with implementing appropriate internal controls and procedures with respect to the new platform. If we are unable to operate the eBay Partner Network as planned, our results of operations, business and reputation may be adversely affected. We are also exposed to the risk of fraud by our affiliates (including click fraud or other clicks or conversions) in our affiliates program, which may result in inflated traffic to our websites and/or lower quality traffic. If we are unable to detect and prevent any such fraud by our affiliates in a timely and effective manner, our profitability may be negatively impacted. Our business may be adversely affected by factors that cause our users to spend less time on our websites, including seasonal factors, national events and increased usage of other websites. Anything that diverts our users from their customary level of usage of our websites could adversely affect our business. We would therefore be adversely affected by geopolitical events such as war, the threat of war, or terrorist activity, and natural disasters, such as hurricanes or earthquakes. Similarly, our results of operations historically have been seasonal because many of our users reduce their activities on our websites with the onset of good weather during the summer months, and on and around national holidays. In addition, increased usage of social networking or other entertainment websites may decrease the amount of time users spend on our websites, which could adversely affect our financial results. Our failure to cost effectively manage certain aspects of our business could harm us. We have expanded our headcount, facilities, and infrastructure in the U.S. and internationally, and anticipate that further expansion will be required as we continue to expand into new lines of business and geographic areas. This expansion has placed, and we expect it will continue to place, a significant strain on our management, operational, and financial resources. The areas that are put under strain by our growth include the following: Website Usability.  User activity rates on our websites depend in part on the quality of our users’ experiences on those sites. The rapid growth in the number and complexity of products and features on our sites has occasionally caused users to become confused or overwhelmed or has otherwise impaired users’ experiences on those sites. We are in the process of making numerous improvements to our eBay websites, including an attempt to improve the user experience on those websites. These attempts at improvement could fail, or could decrease activity among users who had grown used to or preferred the existing experience on our sites. Any impairment of customer satisfaction as a result of site usability issues could lead to a loss of customers or impair our ability to add customers, either of which would harm our business. Website Stability.  We must constantly add new hardware, update software and add new engineering personnel to accommodate the increased use of our and our subsidiaries’ websites and the new products and features we regularly introduce. This upgrade process is expensive, and the increased complexity of our websites and the need to support multiple platforms as our portfolio of brands grows increases the cost of additional enhancements. Failure to upgrade our technology, features, transaction processing systems, security infrastructure, or network infrastructure to accommodate increased traffic or transaction volume could harm our business. Adverse consequences could include unanticipated system disruptions, slower response times, degradation in levels of customer support, impaired quality of users’ experiences of our services, impaired quality of services for third-party application developers using our externally accessible Application Programming Interface, or API, and delays in reporting accurate financial information. We may be unable to effectively upgrade and expand our systems in a timely manner or smoothly integrate any newly developed or purchased technologies or businesses with our existing systems, and any failure to do so could result in problems on our sites. Further, steps to increase the reliability and redundancy of our systems are expensive, reduce our margins, and may not be successful in reducing the frequency or duration of unscheduled downtime. Customer Account Billing.  Our revenues depend on prompt and accurate billing processes. Our failure to grow our transaction-processing capabilities to accommodate the increasing number of transactions that must be billed on any of our websites would harm our business and our ability to collect revenue. Customer Support.  We are expanding our customer support operations to accommodate the increased number of users and transactions on our websites and the increased level of user protection activity we provide worldwide. If we are unable to provide these operations in a cost-effective manner, users of our websites may have negative experiences, current and future revenues could suffer, and our operating margins may decrease. We must continue to effectively hire, train, and manage new employees. If our new hires perform poorly, if we are unsuccessful in hiring, training, managing, and integrating these new employees, or if we are not successful in retaining our existing employees, our business may be harmed. To manage the expected growth of our operations and personnel, we will need to improve our transaction processing, operational and financial systems, procedures, and controls. This is a special challenge as we acquire new operations with different systems. Our current and planned personnel, systems, procedures, and controls may not be adequate to support our future operations. The additional headcount and capital investments we are adding will increase our cost base, which will make it more difficult for us to offset any future revenue shortfalls by expense reductions in the short term. We may have exposure to greater than anticipated tax liabilities. The determination of our worldwide provision for income taxes and other tax liabilities requires estimation and significant judgment and there are many transactions and calculations where the ultimate tax determination is uncertain. Our determination of our tax liability is always subject to audit and review by applicable domestic and foreign tax authorities, and we are currently undergoing a number of such audits and reviews by taxing authorities throughout the world. Any adverse outcome of any such audit or review could have a negative effect on our operating results and financial condition. Although we believe our estimates are reasonable, the ultimate tax outcome may differ from the amounts recorded in our financial statements and may materially affect our financial results in the period or periods for which such determination is made. We depend on the continued growth of online commerce and communications. The business of selling goods over the Internet, particularly through online trading, is dynamic and relatively new. Concerns about fraud, privacy, and other problems may discourage additional consumers from adopting the Internet as a medium of commerce. In countries such as the U.S. and Germany, where our services and online commerce generally have been available for some time and the level of market penetration of our services is high, acquiring new users for our services may be more difficult and costly than it has been in the past. In order to expand our user base, we must appeal to and acquire consumers who historically have used traditional means of commerce to purchase goods and may prefer Internet analogs to such traditional retail means to our offerings, such as the retailer’s own website. If these consumers prove to be less active than our earlier users, and we are unable to gain efficiencies in our operating costs, including our cost of acquiring new customers, our business could be adversely impacted. Our business depends on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. The success of our services will depend largely on the development and maintenance of the Internet infrastructure. This includes maintenance of a reliable network backbone with the necessary speed, data capacity, and security, as well as timely development of complementary products, for providing reliable Internet access and services. The Internet has experienced, and is likely to continue to experience, significant growth in the numbers of users and amount of traffic. The Internet infrastructure may be unable to support such demands. In addition, increasing numbers of users, increasing bandwidth requirements, or problems caused by “viruses,” “worms,” and similar programs may harm the performance of the Internet. The backbone computers of the Internet have been the targets of such programs. The Internet has experienced a variety of outages and other delays as a result of damage to portions of its infrastructure, and it could face outages and delays in the future. These outages and delays could reduce the level of Internet usage generally as well as the level of usage of our services. We may be unable to protect or enforce our own intellectual property rights adequately. We regard the protection of our trademarks, copyrights, patents, domain names, trade dress, and trade secrets as critical to our success. We aggressively protect our intellectual property rights by relying on a federal, state and common law rights, as well as a variety of administrative procedures. We also rely on contractual restrictions t protect our proprietary rights in products and services. We have entered into confidentiality and invention assignment agreements with our employees and contractors, and confidentiality agreements with parties with whom we conduct business in order to limit access to and disclosure of our proprietary information. These contractual arrangements and the other steps we have taken to protect our intellectual property may not prevent misappropriation of our technology or deter independent development of similar technologies by others. We pursue the registration of our domain names, trademarks, and service marks in the U.S. and internationally. Effective trademark, copyright, patent, domain name, trade dress, and trade secret protection is very expensive to maintain and may require litigation. We must protect our trademarks, patents, and domain names in an increasing number of jurisdictions, a process that is expensive and may not be successful in every location. For example, Skype is in the process of applying to register the Skype name as a trademark worldwide. In the EU, Skype’s application is being opposed. If these oppositions to Skype’s applications were to be successful, Skype’s ability to protect its brand against third-party infringers would be compromised. We have licensed in the past, and expect to license in the future, certain of our proprietary rights, such as trademarks or copyrighted material, to others. These licensees may take actions that diminish the value of our proprietary rights or harm our reputation. We are subject to the risks of owning real property. We own real property, including land and buildings related to our operations. We have little experience in managing real property. Ownership of this property subjects us to risks, including: the possibility of environmental contamination and the costs associated with fixing any environmental problems; adverse changes in the value of these properties, due to interest rate changes, changes in the neighborhoods in which the properties are located, or other factors; he possible need for structural improvements in order to comply with zoning, seismic, disability act, or other requirements; and possible disputes with tenants, neighboring owners, or others. Some anti-takeover provisions may affect the price of our common stock. Our Board of Directors has the authority to issue up to 10,000,000 shares of preferred stock and to determine the preferences, rights and privileges of those shares without any further vote or action by the stockholders. The rights of the holders of common stock may be harmed by rights granted to the holders of any preferred stock that may be issued in the future. Some provisions of our certificate of incorporation and bylaws could have the effect of making it more difficult for a potential acquirer to acquire a majority of our outstanding voting stock. These include provisions that provide for a classified board of directors, prohibit stockholders from taking action by written consent and restrict the ability of stockholders to call special meetings. We are also subject to provisions of Delaware law that prohibit us from engaging in any business combination with any interested stockholder for a period of three years from the date the person became an interested stockholder, unless certain conditions are met. This restriction could have the effect of delaying or preventing a change of control.",0.666398462832,0.0244428468728
